Crystal City Code 205.01(Rev. 2012)
Section 205 - Wards of the city
205.01. (Repealed, Ord. No. 2009-05, Sec. 2)

205.03. (Repealed, Ord. No. 2012-03, Sec. 2)

205.05. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-03, Sec. 1) Pursuant to the city charter, and in conformance with the 2010 United States Census of population, as issued by the United States Bureau of Census, the following are established as wards of the city.
	Ward 1:
		All that part of Crystal lying west of State Trunk Highway No. 100 and lying south and west of the following described line: beginning at the intersection of the centerline of 34th Avenue North and the westerly right-of-way line of said Highway No. 100, thence west along said centerline of 34th Avenue North to its intersection with the centerline of Louisiana Avenue North, thence north along said centerline of Louisiana Avenue North to its intersection of the centerline of 35th Avenue North, thence west along said centerline of 35th Avenue North to the centerline of Nevada Avenue North, thence north along said centerline of Nevada Avenue North to the centerline of 36th Avenue North, thence west along said centerline of 36th Avenue North to the centerline of Boone Avenue North and there terminating.
	Ward 2:
		All that part of Crystal lying east of State Trunk Highway No. 100 and north of Ward 1 and south and west of the following described line: beginning at the intersection of the east corporate limits and the centerline of 44th Avenue North, thence west along said centerline of 44th Avenue North to its intersection with the centerline of Brunswick Avenue North, thence north along said centerline of Brunswick Avenue North to its intersection with the centerline of 45th Avenue North, thence west along said centerline of 45th Avenue North to its intersection with the west corporate limits which is 163 feet more or less west of the intersection of the centerlines of 45th Avenue North and Louisiana Avenue North and there terminating. Together with that part of Crystal described as: beginning at the intersections of the centerlines of Winnetka Avenue North and 36th Avenue North, thence east to the west line of the Canadian Pacific Railroad easement, thence north 1,843.2 feet more or less along said easement line to the city border, thence west along the city border to the centerline of Winnetka Avenue North, thence south along the centerline of Winnetka Avenue North to the point of beginning Together with that part of Crystal described as: beginning at the intersections of the centerlines of 35th Avenue North and Nevada Avenue North, thence east to the centerline of Louisiana Avenue North, thence north to the centerline of 36th Avenue North, thence west to the centerline of Nevada Avenue North, thence south to the point of beginning.
Crystal City Code 205.03
(Rev. 2012)

	Ward 3:
		All that part of Crystal lying north of Ward 2 and south of a line beginning at the intersection of the centerlines of 54th Avenue North and Nevada Avenue North, thence southeasterly along the centerline of said 54th Avenue North to the centerline of Maryland Avenue North, thence east along the centerline of 54th Avenue North to the centerline of West Broadway Avenue (County Road No. 8), thence southeasterly along the centerline of West Broadway Avenue (County Road No. 8), to the centerline of Douglas Drive North, thence north along the centerline of Douglas Drive North to the centerline of 55th Avenue North, thence west along the centerline of 55th Avenue North to the centerline of Sherburne Avenue North, thence northerly along the centerline of Sherburne Avenue North to the centerline of 56th Avenue North (County Road No. 10), thence east along the centerline of 56th Avenue North (County Road No. 10), to the centerline of County Road 81/Bottineau Boulevard, thence southeasterly along the centerline of County Road 81/Bottineau Boulevard to the centerline of the Canadian Pacific Railroad easement, thence easterly along the centerline of said railway easement to the easterly corporate limits.
	Ward 4:
		All those parts of Crystal lying generally north of Ward 3. 
