Section 200 - Council rules and procedures
200.01. Regular and special meetings. Regular meetings of the council must be held on the first and third Tuesday of each month in the council chambers of the city hall at 7:00 p.m. unless otherwise specified by council resolution. Meetings may be adjourned from time to time to a specified date or subject to the call of the mayor or any three members of the council upon at least twelve hours' notice to each member of the council and such other notice required by law. Regular and special meetings of the council are held in compliance with section 3.01 of the charter. Meetings of the council must be open to the public.

200.03. Quorum. A majority of council members elected constitutes a quorum, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time.

200.05. Presiding officer and secretary. The mayor presides at meetings of the council. The council must choose from its members a mayor pro tem in accordance with section 2.08 of the charter. The secretary of the council is appointed by the council and performs those duties stated in section 3.02 of the charter. The city clerk is the secretary of the council.

200.07. First meeting. At the first regular meeting of the council in each year, the council must designate an official newspaper, and depositories for official funds. The council may appoint such committees as it deems necessary.

200.09. Council rules; presiding officer. The presiding officer must preserve order and decorum, decide questions of order, and conduct meetings in accordance with these rules. The city council is governed in its procedure by the provisions of chapters 2 and 3 of the city charter and Roberts Rules of Order (Newly Revised Edition) except where otherwise provided by the charter or by this chapter. The council may make and change its own rules from time to time by resolution duly adopted and any such changes supersede Roberts Rules of Order (Newly Revised Edition) and any previously adopted rules to the extent they conflict with the new rules. The council may, as part of its rules, impose on itself specific voting requirements related to the adoption and amendment of its rules including, but not limited, that such actions must be approved by more than a majority of the council. Any such specific voting requirements must be clearly identified in the rules. Rules adopted by the council shall remain in effect until changed, repealed, or superseded by council action. The most current version of the council rules shall be posted on the city’s website and a copy shall be available in the meeting room during regular and special council meetings. The presiding officer may speak on any question being considered, and has the rights, privileges, and duties of any other member of the council. The presiding officer may temporarily yield the chair to introduce or second a motion, resolution or ordinance. (Amended, Ord. No. 2015-03)

200.11. Motions reduced to writing. A motion must be reduced to writing at the request of any member present. Ordinances and resolutions must be presented in writing and read in full before a vote is taken thereon unless the reading is dispensed with by unanimous consent.

200.13. Signing and publishing of ordinances. Ordinances must be signed in accordance with section 3.08 of the charter, attested by the clerk, published after its passage by the council, and recorded by the clerk in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose.
