Section 1015 - Permit procedures
1015.01. Permits required. It is unlawful to engage in any trade, profession, business or privilege in the city for which a permit is required by any provision of this code without first obtaining a permit from the city in the manner provided in this section.

1015.03. Application for permit. Application for a permit is made to the clerk on forms furnished by the city. The application must contain information as to location, nature, extent and costs of the proposed structure, work, installation, or other purposes, and other information which the building inspector or other duly authorized persons may require under this code. The application must contain a declaration that the facts and representations therein made are true and correct, which statement must be subscribed to by the person or persons, or officers or agents of a corporation, applying for said permit.

1015.05. Granting of permits. Upon payment to the city by the applicant of the required fee for any permits, and upon approval of the appropriate inspector, the permit will be issued, except where council approval is required, in which case the building inspector is authorized to issue such permit after approval is granted by the council.

1015.07. Permit fees. The fees for the various permits are set out in appendix IV.

1015.09. Payment of fees. 
	Subdivision 1. Payment. The permit fee and other fees and charges set forth in this code will be collected by the city before the issuance of any permits, and the city clerk, building inspector, or other persons duly authorized to issue such permit for which the payment of a fee is required under the provisions of this code may not issue a permit until such fee has been paid.
	Subd. 2. Double fees. If a person begins work of any kind for which a permit from the city is required, without having secured the necessary permits therefor, either previous to or on the date of commencement of such work, that person must, when subsequently securing such permit, pay double the fee provided for such permit and is subject to the penalty provisions of this code.
	
1015.11. Dogs; special provisions. Notwithstanding the provisions of this code, the city council may by resolution fix the impounding fees, the boarding of dogs fees, and the fees required for euthanasia.

1015.13. Zoning and subdivision fees; special provisions. 
	Subdivision 1. Scope and application. This subsection applies to applications for the platting or replatting of land and variances from platting regulations made pursuant to section 505 of this code, and to applications for zoning district changes, zoning code text amendments, conditional use permits, and variances, made pursuant to section 515 (appendix I) of this code.
	Subd. 2. Basic fee. The basic fee for an application to which this subsection applies is set in appendix IV.
	Subd. 3. Additional fee. In order to defray the costs to the city of processing applications to which this subsection applies, applicants must pay, in addition to the basic fee, a fee computed in accordance with this subdivision. This additional fee represents the following costs:
		a) Costs of materials for the application including, but not limited to, maps, graphs, charts, and drawings;
		b) Staff and consultant time spent in preparing materials for the application, including necessary research. The amount of the additional fee will be estimated by the city clerk at the time of application based upon an hourly rate for staff and consultant time and estimated costs of materials. The hourly rate and cost estimates utilized in computing the fee must be made available to the applicant by the clerk.
		Subd. 4. Fees; payment; deposit. The basic fee and a cash deposit equal to the estimated additional fee must accompany an application filed under this subsection. The city manager must establish procedures for accounting for all costs represented by the additional fee. If such actual costs are less than the additional fee cash deposit the excess must be returned to the applicant within 30 days after final action by the council on the application. If such actual costs exceed the additional fee cash deposit, the clerk must bill the applicant for such excess at the end of each month, and such bill will be payable within 30 days of receipt. The application form must contain a statement that applicant agrees to pay all such billings. The council may not grant any application to which this subsection applies until all application fees and excess billings are paid.
		Subd. 5. Refunds. Except as provided in subdivision 4, the basic and additional application fees may not be refunded unless the application is withdrawn prior to its referral to the planning commission by the city clerk or the council.
