Section 1005 - Licensing procedures
1005.01. Licenses required. It is unlawful to engage in a trade, profession, business or privilege in the city for which a license is required by any provision of this code without first obtaining a license from the city in the manner provided in this section.

1005.03. Application. Application for a license is made to the clerk upon forms provided by the city. The applicant must state the location of the proposed activity and such other facts as are required for or applicable to the granting of the license.

1005.05. Payment of fee. The fees required for a license must be paid at the office of the clerk before the granting of the license. Unless otherwise provided by this code a license fee may not be prorated for a portion of a year, and a license fee paid will not be refunded.

1005.07. Bond and insurance. Required bonds must be executed by two sureties, or a surety company, and be subject to the approval of the manager and the council. Where policies of insurance are required, the policies must be approved as to substance and form by the city attorney. Satisfactory evidence of coverage by bond or insurance must be filed with the clerk before the license is issued.

1005.09. Approval or denial of licenses. Where the approval of any city officer or state officer or the council is required prior to the issuance of a license, the approval must be presented to the clerk before the license is issued. A license may not be approved by any city officer or issued by the clerk if it appears that the conduct of the activity for which a license is sought will be contrary to the health, safety or welfare of the public or any regulation, law or ordinance applicable to such activity.

1005.11. License term. The term of the license year begins on January 1 and ends on December 31. Where the issuance of licenses for periods of less than one year is permitted, the effective date of the license is the date of issuance.

1005.13. License certificates. License certificates must show the date of issue, the activity licensed and the term of the license. The certificates must be signed by the manager and clerk, and be impressed with the city seal.

1005.15. Exhibition of license certificate. A licensee must carry the license certificate upon the licensee's person at all times when engaged in the activity for which the license was granted. Where the licensed activity is conducted at a fixed place of business or establishment, the certificate must be exhibited at all times in some conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee must present the license certificate when applying for a renewal and upon request of any police officer or authorized representative of the city.

1005.17. Transfer of license. Unless otherwise provided, a license is not transferable without the authorization of the council.

1005.19. Renewal of license. License renewals are issued in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as original licenses.

1005.21. Revocation; denial; suspension. A license issued or to be issued by the city may be denied, suspended or revoked by the council for any of the following causes:
	a) Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statement contained in the application for license, or made in carrying on the licensed activity.
	b) Conviction of any crime, or misdemeanor pertaining to license held or applied for.
	c) Conducting such licensed activity in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace, or a menace to the health, safety and welfare of the public, or a disturbance of the peace or comfort of the residents of the city, upon recommendation of the city health authorities or other appropriate city official.
	d) Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance, or failure to notify the city within a reasonable time of changes in the terms of the insurance or the carriers.
	e) Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license granted.
	f) Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to the activity for which the license has been granted, or any regulation or law of the state so applicable.
	g) Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as precedent to the approval of the license.
	
1005.23. Hearing. A license may not be suspended or revoked until after a hearing is granted to the licensee. The hearing to be held before the city council upon due notice to the licensee stating the time and place of such hearing, together with a statement of the violation alleged to be the cause for the revocation or suspension of the license.

1005.25. Inspections. The city health authority and other appropriate city officials may enter upon the premises where any licensed activity is being conducted for the purpose of inspection at any reasonable hour.

1005.27. Garbage and refuse haulers charges; special provisions. As a condition of granting a license to provide garbage and refuse removal service to residences and commercial establishments, the city council reserves the right to establish, by resolution, the maximum rate that holders of such licenses may charge their customers, and the council may, from time to time, establish such rate maximums. The failure of a holder of a license to abide by such rate controls is grounds for the revocation of the license by the council.

1005.29. Financial responsibility; applicability. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-5)
	a) Prior to the issuance of a license the applicant must file with the city clerk satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" shall be shown by a certification under oath that the property taxes, public utility bills, and all state and federal taxes or other governmental obligations or claims concerning the business entity applying for the license are current, and that no notice of delinquency or default has been issued, or if any of the financial obligations stated in this subsection are delinquent or in default, that any such delinquency or default is subject to a payment plan or other agreement approved by the applicable governmental entity. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" as required by this subsection shall in addition be shown by an individual applicant and all individual owners and/or shareholders of the business entity. Operation of a business licensed under this section without having on-going evidence on file with the city of the financial responsibility required by this subsection is grounds for revocation or suspension of the license. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-5)
	b) This subsection shall apply to all licenses issued by the city except for licenses regulated by Chapter XII of this code which are regulated by that chapter. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-5)
