LICENSES AND PERMITS; PROCEDURES AND FEES
Section 1000 - General provisions
1000.01. Policy and purpose of chapter. By the enactment of this chapter, the city council intends to establish to the maximum degree possible a uniform system for the issuance, revocation, suspension and renewal of licenses and permits for all activities for which licenses and permits are required by this code. The council also intends that fees for licenses and permits required by this code are those set by this chapter.

1000.03. Fees. 
	Subdivision 1. General. The fees for the various licenses and permits are adopted by council resolution from time to time and are set out in appendix IV.
	Subd. 2. Other provisions. City events and city-wide celebrations sponsored by local non-profit/civic organizations in conjunction with the city are exempt from license and permit fees except for on sale intoxicating and non-intoxicating liquor. The organization obtaining the license must reimburse out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the city related to the event.
	
1000.05. Application of chapter. 
	Subdivision 1. General. Where a provision of this code requiring a license or a permit contains no procedures for issuance, revocation, suspension, renewal or fee, the provisions of this chapter apply.
	Subd. 2. Other provisions. Where a provision of this code requiring a license or a permit contains procedures for its issuance, revocation, suspension, renewal or fee, such provisions prevail over this chapter.
	Subd. 3. Conflicts. Where a direct conflict exists between a license or permit fee set by any provision of this code and a fee set by this chapter, the fee set by this chapter applies.
	
1000.07. Notice and hearing. 
	Subdivision 1. Vending machines. Prior to the increase of a license fee for vending machines as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 471.707, the council must hold a public hearing on the question of the increase. The clerk must mail written notice of the time and date of the hearing to vending machine licensees at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
	Subd. 2. Liquor and beer. Prior to the increase of the license fees for intoxicating liquor and non-intoxicating liquor both on sale and off sale, the council must hold a public hearing on the question of the increase. The clerk must mail written notice of the time and date of the hearing to holders of such licenses at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
