Section 810 - Snow removal; sidewalks
810.01. Sidewalks; snow and ice removal. 
	Subdivision 1. Sidewalks to be cleared. Snow and ice must be removed from the sidewalks of the city and must be kept clear of snow and ice by the abutting property owner or occupant thereof. Where ice has formed that cannot be removed then salt, sand, ashes, or other suitable material must be spread upon such ice in sufficient quantity to make the sidewalks usable by pedestrians.

810.03. Clear within 12 hours of snowfall. Sidewalks must be cleared as soon as possible after each snowfall but no later than 12 hours after the cessation of such snowfall. Subsequent intermittent snow flurries may not be used to enlarge the 12 hour period.

810.05. Owner or occupant of land responsible for the snow removal. The owner and occupant of any building or ground within the corporate limits of the city fronting upon or adjacent to the public street must cause the sidewalks along or in front of the premises to be kept clear and free of snow to the full width thereof. The owner of vacant land wherein there is located a public sidewalk is responsible for the removal of snow therefrom. Nothing in this subsection requires the removal of snow upon the public boulevard where no sidewalk exists.

810.07. Costs of removal must be a lien against the land. The refusal of an owner or occupant to remove snow or ice from the sidewalk or the failure of the owner or occupant to comply with this subsection, is sufficient cause for the city manager to direct the removal of snow or ice therefrom by city or hired labor or equipment charging such actual cost against the abutting land. The city engineer will compute the actual cost to each parcel or lot involved and submit the report to the city manager who must bill each property owner involved for the expense incurred.

810.09. Assessment. On or before September 15 in each year the clerk must list the total unpaid charge for snow removal from sidewalks against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The council may then levy the unpaid charges against the property as a special assessment under Minnesota Statutes, section 424.101 for certification to the director of property taxation and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten as the council determines.
