Section 825 - Repair of sidewalks
825.01. Repair of sidewalks. 
	Subdivision 1. Duty of owner. The owner of property within the city abutting a public sidewalk must keep the sidewalk in good repair. Repairs must be made in accordance with the standard specifications approved by the council and on file in the office of the city clerk.
	Subd. 2. Inspections; notice. The city engineer must make such inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks within the city are kept in good repair. If the engineer finds that a sidewalk abutting on private property is unsafe and in need of repairs, the engineer will cause a notice to be served, by registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of the property, or the occupant, if the owner does not reside within the city or cannot be found therein, ordering such owner to have the sidewalk repaired within 20 days, and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city engineer will do so on behalf of the city, that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and that if unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property affected.
	Subd. 3. Repair by city. If the sidewalk is not repaired within 20 days after receipt of the notice, the city engineer must cause the sidewalk to be repaired in accordance with law. The city engineer must keep a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property and report such information to the city clerk.
	
825.03. Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to which a sidewalk repair has been performed under this section is personally liable for the cost of such repair. As soon as the repair has been completed and the cost determined, the city clerk, or other designated official, must prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount will be due and payable at the office of the city clerk.

825.05. Assessment. On or before September 15 of each year, the clerk must list the total unpaid charges for sidewalk repair against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The council may then levy the unpaid charges against the property as a special assessment under Minnesota Statutes, section 429.101 and other pertinent statutes, for certification to the county auditor, and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the council determines.
