805.01. Courtesy bench defined. A courtesy bench is a waiting bench for the convenience of the public waiting for regularly scheduled public transportation at a location within the corporate limits.

805.03. Location. Courtesy benches may be located on public property when adjacent to residential zoning (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4) and may be placed on private property in commercial and industrial zoning when permission is obtained from the owner of the land, and a license is granted by the city in accordance with this section.

805.05. Specifications. 
	Subdivision 1. Each bench location must be approved by the city engineer. Benches must be installed parallel with the curb.
	Subd. 2. A bench may not be more than 42 inches high or more than 30 inches wide or seven feet long.
	Subd. 3. A bench must have displayed thereon, in a conspicuous place, the license number assigned to it.
	Subd. 4. The licensee must maintain the bench at the location designated in the license and keep the bench in good repair, painted and in a usable condition.
	Subd. 5. Ice and snow must be removed from the benches and the vicinity thereof to insure accessibility and safe use by the public.
	
805.07. License; procedure. 
	Subdivision 1. Application. Application for a courtesy bench license is made to the city clerk. The application must be accompanied by the annual license fee set by appendix IV of this code, the insurance policy required by this subsection, and the written approval of the city engineer as to location.
	Subd. 2. Separate licenses; term. Each individual bench location requires a separate license. The term of the license is one year.
	Subd. 3. Insurance. The application must be accompanied by an insurance policy that indemnifies and saves harmless the city, its officers, agents, and employees from any and all loss, costs, damages or liability which may result from the location of the bench regardless of whether such bench is moved or removed to a different location in the city without prior approval by the city council. The limits of the insurance must be $25,000 for any bodily injury to or death to any one person in any one accident, $50,000 for any bodily injury to or death to two or more persons in any one accident, and $10,000 for any damage to or destruction of property of others in any one accident. The failure to keep this insurance in force automatically terminates the license for all benches licensed with the city that such insurance covers.
	
805.09. Bench removal. After the expiration of the license or revocation thereof, the licensee has ten days to remove the bench. If the bench is not removed within the ten day period, the city may remove the bench and place it in storage. After the city has removed the bench the former licensee of record will be notified by mail directed to the address on file with the city. The owner will be given 60 days after notification to claim the bench by paying removal and storage charges. In the event that the bench is not claimed within 60 days the former licensee's rights in such bench will be forfeited to the city, but such forfeiture will not excuse the former licensee from the payment of the cost of removal and storage charges for said bench.

805.11. Advertising. 
	Subdivision 1. Location. Advertising matter may not be displayed upon a bench except upon the front and rear surfaces of the back rest. Advertising must comply with chapter IV of the city code.
	Subd. 2. Contents; illumination. "Stop", "look", "drive-in" and "danger" or any other phrase or symbol which might interfere with, mislead or distract traffic may not be displayed on a bench. Reflective materials or electric illumination of the signs on any bench or benches is prohibited.
