Section 800 - Streets and sidewalks
800.01. Width of streets and sidewalks. 
	Subdivision 1. 50 foot streets. Streets having a width of more than 50 feet must have a roadway measured from curb to curb of 30 feet, and sidewalks must be five feet wide and laid one half foot from the property line. The remaining portion of the street is boulevard.
	Subd. 2. Streets less than 50 feet. Streets having a width of 50 feet or less must have a roadway measured from curb to curb of 30 feet and sidewalks must be five feet wide and laid next to the property line. The remaining portion of the street is boulevard.

800.03. Planting in streets or sidewalk easements. Trees, bushes, or any plant life other than grass may not be planted or replanted within any of the public easements for right-of-way for streets, sidewalks and boulevards within the city except as permitted by subsections 800.20 and 800.21. If trees, bushes or any plant life other than grass is planted or replanted in violation of this section, upon written notice to the adjoining land owner, lessee or occupier of the land by any police officer or city employee, the adjoining land owner, lessee, or occupier of land must within 30 days of such notice, remove or cause to be removed from the right-of-way the tree, bush, or other plant life which is in violation of this section. If not removed within the 30 day period, the tree, bush, or other plant life which is in violation of this section may be removed by or at the direction of the city, and the expense of such removal may be charged against the adjoining land owner, lessee or occupier of land. (Amended, Ord. No. 2000-9, Sec. 1)

800.05. Street excavations; permits. 
	Subdivision 1. Permit. It is unlawful for any person to make an excavation within any street or alley in the city for the purpose of installing water, sewer, steam or gas pipes, or electric or telephone conduits or for any other purpose, without first obtaining a permit for such excavation from the city engineer. A permit is not required for any such excavation that is made under a contract awarded by the city or made by persons hired by the city.
	Subd. 2. Application. Application for permits is made in writing on forms provided for that purpose by the city. The form must set forth the pertinent regulations applicable to the permit, as prepared from time to time by the engineer, and as modified by the engineer with respect to the particular work covered by the permit. The engineer must prepare such regulations with respect to excavations within any street or alley and modify them with respect to particular work, as may be necessary or advisable to protect the public from injury, to prevent damage to public or private property, and to minimize interference with the public use of the streets.
	Subd. 3. Issuance. Permits for excavations are in writing. The permit must be kept on the site of the work while it is in progress in the custody of the individual in charge and must be exhibited upon request made by any city official or police officer.
	Subd. 4. Fees. Before a permit is issued, the applicant requesting the permit must pay the fee set by appendix IV of this code for each location covered by the permit. Each transverse excavation and each 300 feet or portion thereof of longitudinal excavation is a location.

800.07. Street excavations; other regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. Barricades. Excavations must be protected by a suitable barricade, guard, or fence about the place of such excavation, sufficient to prevent persons or animals from being injured by falling into the same. The permittee must place and maintain, during the hours of the day flags, and between the hours of sunset and sunrise a suitable number of red lanterns or flares on all sides thereof to warn the general public of the existence of the excavation.
	Subd. 2. Surety bond. A surety bond in the amount of $1,000 is required from each person requesting a permit except a duly licensed and bonded plumber, or a public utility corporation holding a franchise from the city. The bond must be conditioned that the holder will perform the work in accordance with the applicable regulations, will indemnify and save harmless the city from all damage caused in the execution of such work or costs in connection with the repair of the streets or alleys excavated, and that the holder will pay any and all damages that will be suffered by the city by reason of the failure of the person securing the permit to observe the terms of this section or by reason of negligence in the execution of the work.
	Subd. 3. Contractor's insurance. A certified copy of the contractor's insurance policy, which must name the city of Crystal as an additional insured under the coverage provided by the policy, must be filed with the clerk. This insurance policy must be not less than $300,000 for bodily injury to or death of one person, and $250,000 on account of any one accident, and $50,000 for property damage.
	Subd. 4. Traffic inconvenience. Work must progress in an expeditious manner until completion in order to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to traffic. In the event that the work is not performed in accordance with the applicable regulations or ceases or is abandoned without due cause, the city may, after six hours notice in writing to the holder of the permit of intent to do so, correct the work or fill the excavation, and repair the street. The entire cost to the city of the work must be a liability of and must be paid by the person to whom the permit was issued.
	Subd. 5. Utility permits. The provisions of this subsection are in addition to all utility connection permits that may be required by the code or by the rules and regulations of the engineer.

800.09. Sidewalk, curb and gutter construction. 
	Subdivision 1. Engineer. The city engineer is responsible for the control and supervision of the construction and repair of all public sidewalks, curb, or curb and gutter and supervises or constructs such public sidewalk and curb and gutter whenever the same is ordered by the council.
	Subd. 2. Permit. It is unlawful to lay or construct a sidewalk, driveway, curb, or curb and gutter upon any boulevard, street, parkway, or public ground without obtaining a permit from the engineer. The applicant must pay the fees set by appendix IV of this code.
	Subd. 3. Bond. The permit application must be accompanied by a good and sufficient bond with at least two sureties, or a surety company, to guarantee the construction of such sidewalk, driveway, curb, or curb and gutter in accordance with the specifications on file in the office of the engineer, and to indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may arise by the obstruction of the street, or from any other cause. The bond must contain an agreement and condition that all artificial stone sidewalks, curbs, and curbs and gutters laid by the principal in such bond must be maintained by such principal for the period of two years after the completion of the laying of the same in a good and sufficient condition and free from all defects, settlements and cracks caused by action of the elements, the use of imperfect material or workmanship, or by the proper use of such sidewalks, curbs, and curbs and gutters for the purpose intended.

800.10. (Added, Ord. 2008-01) Curb cuts and driveway approaches within the public right-of-way. 
	Subdivision 1. Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to create, construct, move or modify a curb cut or driveway approach within the public right-of-way without first obtaining a curb cut permit for such work in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section. The curb cut permit is in addition to a right-of-way permit.
	Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purpose of this subdivision, “driveway” shall mean the area on private property providing vehicular access to the garage or parking area; “driveway approach” shall mean the area within the street right-of-way providing vehicular access from the curb cut to the driveway; and “curb cut” shall mean the edge of the street where joined by the driveway approach, whether or not standard concrete curb and gutter are present on the street.
	Subd. 3. Standards. The permit holder shall perform the work authorized under the permit according to the standards specified below.
		a) Curb cuts for 1-family and 2-family dwellings shall comply with the following requirements:
			1) Curb cuts shall not exceed 22 feet in width or the width of the driveway at the property line, whichever is less.
			2) If the curb cut is narrower than the driveway at the property line, then there may be an angled transition in the width of the driveway approach provided that the angle is no more than 45 degrees. In no circumstance shall any part of the driveway approach exceed 22 feet in width, unless the city manager, upon the recommendation of the city engineer, determines that, due to setback or topographic constraints, greater width in the boulevard is required for an angled transition to a wider, conforming driveway or lawful auxiliary space on private property.
			3) When a property is permitted more than one auxiliary parking space in accordance with Exception #2 in 515.17, subdivision 4 i) 5), the city engineer may approve an additional angled transition in the width of the driveway approach to provide access to such auxiliary space. The additional area must only be on one side of the curb cut, be no more than three feet wider than the curb cut at the edge of the street pavement, and have an angle of no more than 45 degrees. The combined width of the driveway approach plus this additional area shall not exceed 22 feet anywhere in the street right-of-way, unless there are setback or topographic constraints that require greater width to provide reasonable access to a conforming driveway or lawful auxiliary space.
			4) Two adjacent 1-family dwellings may share a single curb cut. In such cases, the maximum curb cut width shall be the sum of each dwelling’s allowed curb cut width, but in no circumstances shall a shared curb cut exceed 32 feet in width.
			5) Curb cuts and driveway approaches shall be at least three feet from the side lot line extended to the street, except that shared curb cuts may straddle the common lot line between the two properties sharing the curb cut.
			6) No curb cut or driveway approach access on a collector or arterial street shall be located less than 30 feet from the corner. No curb cut access on a local street shall be located less than 20 feet from the corner. Distances shall be measured from the intersection of right-of-way lines.
		b) Curb cuts for uses other than 1-family and 2-family dwellings shall comply with the following requirements:
			1) Curb cuts shall not exceed 32 feet in width or the width of the driveway at the property line, whichever is less.
			2) The width of driveway approach shall not exceed the curb cut width, unless the property has setback or topographic constraints and the city engineer makes a determination that for the property to have reasonable access the driveway must be allowed to be wider at the property line than it is at the curb cut.
			3) Curb cuts and driveway approaches shall be at least five feet from the side lot line extended to the street.
			4) Curb cuts and driveway approaches shall not be located less than 40 feet from one another.
			5) No curb cut access or driveway approach on a collector or arterial street shall be located less than 30 feet from the corner. No curb cut access on a minor street shall be located less than 20 feet from the corner. This distance shall be measured from the intersection of right-of-way lines.
		c) A parcel of land may have one curb cut for each 125 feet of street frontage, but every parcel of land may have one curb cut. A parcel of land used for a single family dwelling may have only one curb cut regardless of the amount of street frontage. The city manager, upon the recommendation of the city engineer, may find that one additional curb cut may be permitted for a parcel used for single family use provided that the additional curb cut provides access to an existing conforming or lawfully nonconforming structure, including but not limited to garages and paved surfaces lawfully used for vehicular parking, and that the parcel cannot be put to reasonable use without the additional curb cut. For a single family or two family dwelling, where a parcel of land abuts on an alley open to public use, one additional access is permitted opening on the alley for use only to access a garage.
		d) The boulevard portion of the street right-of-way shall not be used for parking. This prohibition includes the driveway approach.

800.11. Street nuisances. 
	Subdivision 1. Prohibition. The acts prohibited by this subsection are declared to be public nuisances and may be abated by the city as such.
	Subd. 2. Dirt and filth. It is unlawful to throw, spill, place or deposit or leave, or cause to be thrown, spilled, placed, deposited or left, or permit any servant, agent or employee to throw, spill, place, deposit or leave in or upon any street, highway, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place in the city, any dirt, sweepings, filth, shells, garbage, vegetables, dead carcasses, sewage, slops, excrement, compost, stable manure, ashes, soot, tin cans, rags, waste paper, leaves, brush, weeds, grass, hay, excelsior, barrels, crates, boxes, letter or loose combustible materials; materials subject to being carried by the wind or unwholesome, noisome or putrescible material of any kind.
	Subd. 3. Offensive liquids. It is unlawful to allow slops, or malodorous, noxious liquids to run, drip or fall into or upon any street, highway, alley, sidewalk, park, stream or other public place.
	Subd. 4. Accumulation of ice and snow. It is unlawful to deposit accumulation of ice and snow in or upon any street or other public place or way.
	Subd. 5. Glass, china or other substances. It is unlawful to place or cause to be placed or cause or allow to remain in or upon the surface of any street, highway, sidewalk, alley or other public place any glass, china, nails, tacks, or other sharp or penetrating substance.
	Subd. 6. Fruit skins. It is unlawful to throw or deposit on any sidewalk or in any street or public place any part or portion of any fruit or vegetable or other substance, which when stepped upon by a person is liable to cause or does cause that person to slip or fall.
	Subd. 7. Littering. It is unlawful to scatter, drop or spill or permit to be scattered, dropped or spilled any dirt, sand, gravel, clay, loam, stone or building rubbish, or hay, straw, sawdust, shavings, or other light materials of any sort, or manufacturing, trade or household wastes, refuse, rubbish of any sort, or ashes or manure, garbage, or other organic refuse or other offensive matter therefrom, or permit the same to be blown off therefrom by the wind in or upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place.
	Subd. 8. Obstruction of sewers and drains. It is unlawful to throw or deposit or cause to be thrown or deposited into any drain, catch basin, sewer or gutter any substance which may cause obstruction or injury thereto or nuisance therein or to divert or stop the flow of any drain or sewer.
	Subd. 9. Violation. It is unlawful to perform any of the acts prohibited by this subsection.

800.13. Damaging public property. It is unlawful to make any excavation, nor build or construct any fence, sidewalk, or building or structure of any nature in any street, road, avenue, lane, alley, or public grounds of or in the city for any purpose, or remove any earth or soil therefrom unless authorized to do so by a written permit from the council. A person, when so authorized, may not make any such excavation or construction except in accordance with the conditions, provisions, limitations and specifications contained in such permit and until that person has erected a guard or fence about the place of such excavation or building, sufficient to prevent persons or animals from being injured by falling into such excavation or by articles falling from such construction. Every person making such excavation or construction, when it is accomplished, or at any time when ordered by the council, must without delay, fill or remove the same, so that such public grounds or thoroughfares will be in at least as good condition as before the excavation or construction was made.

800.15. Damaging signs. It is unlawful to mar, injure, deface, destroy or place or cause to be placed any advertising device or representation of any kind or nature upon any fence, tree, guide posts or boards, sign boards, awnings, lamp posts, lamp or lanterns, street signs, telephone poles or electric poles upon or along any street, road, avenue, lane, alley, square or other public place in the city.

800.17. Damaging trees and shrubbery. It is unlawful to cut down, injure or destroy any fruit, shade or other tree or shrubbery growing or being in any public street, avenue, road, lane, alley, common square or other public ground in the city without the permission of the council.

800.19. New buildings. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. A high density residential, commercial, and industrial building constructed, whether with or without a garage, must conform to and comply with the provisions of this section. All residential property that abuts a street lined with concrete curb and sidewalk is also included in this rule.
	Subd. 2. Requirements. All such buildings must provide a concrete driveway from the curb line to the property line of the lot upon which the building is to be placed. Concrete must be air-entraining portland cement concrete. Such concrete driveway must rise at the rate of 1/4 inch per foot from the top of the curb line to the property line of said lot. The driveway may not be less than 12 feet in width and be not less than six inches thick.
	Subd. 3. Escrow required. A cash escrow must be deposited with the city clerk to guarantee the construction of the concrete driveway. A certificate of occupancy may not be issued for any building until all of the requirements of the building code, zoning or other ordinances of the city have been complied with, including the construction of the concrete driveway as prescribed above except that after October 15 of each calendar year a certificate of occupancy may be issued stipulating the driveway is to be constructed prior to July 1 of the following year. In the event that the driveway is not constructed by July 1 of the following year then the permittee will be considered in default, and if the permittee is in default, the escrow will be forfeited and the city, its employees, or its authorized agent must enter upon the lot and complete the concrete driveways as prescribed in this section.

800.20. Boulevard plantings. Flowers, ornamental grasses, forbs and bushes grown on that part of any boulevard inside the roadway to the property line of the adjoining landowner (or sidewalk, if one exists) are allowed without a permit from the city, provided they meet the following height requirements, and comply with other portions of the city code, including sight triangle restrictions pursuant to subsection 515.07. Nothing in this subsection excuses participating parties from complying with section 640 governing noxious weeds except that ornamental grasses may be grown in compliance with this subsection. Nothing in this subsection excuses participating parties from the responsibility of obtaining clearance from Gopher One prior to digging pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, sections 216D.01-.09 nor from liability for any resulting damage to utilities.
	a) From the curb inward for five feet, only grass or groundcover may be planted.
	b) From five feet inward to ten feet inward from the curb, a maximum plant height of 18 inches shall be maintained.
	c) From ten feet inward from the curb to the end of the easement, no plant height restrictions shall apply. (Added, Ord. No. 2000-9, Sec. 2)

800.21. Planting of trees. 
	Subdivision 1. The Public Works Department of the city of Crystal shall hereafter have the authority to direct and regulate the planting and preservation of shade and ornamental trees and bushes in the streets, alleys, and public grounds of said city.
	Subd. 2. The Public Works Department may issue planting permits to individuals or groups to plant trees within the boulevards, subject to requirements it may establish. Fees for planting permits are set out in appendix IV.
	Subd. 3. It is a misdemeanor for an individual or group to plant a tree on a boulevard without a planting permit from the Public Works Department. (Added, Ord. No. 2000-9, Sec. 3)
