Section 830 - Tree removal and replacement standards
830.01. Purpose. It is the intent of this section to protect, preserve and enhance the natural environment and beauty of the city by regulating the planting, maintenance and removal of trees in the city. It is the intent of this section to encourage the preservation of the existing trees in the city. The city desires to protect the integrity of the environment and finds that trees do so by improving air quality, scenic beauty, protection against wind and water erosion and natural insulation for energy conservation. The city also finds that trees protect privacy and enhance property values.

830.03. Tree advisory board. The park and recreation advisory commission is designated the tree advisory board. The board is responsible for recommending policies regarding tree replacement and maintenance as well as recommending and implementing provisions required by the Tree City USA Program. The board is advisory to the council.

830.05. Applicability. This section applies to (i) trees located within street right-of-ways, parks and public places of the city and (ii) trees located on private property as specified herein.

830.07. Licensing. It is unlawful to engage in the business of trimming or removing trees on the property of another without a license under section 1165.

830.09. Landscaping. In new subdivision developments or when the redevelopment of commercial or industrial property occurs, landscaping plans will be reviewed and approved by city staff with final approval by the city council. Landscaping must be done in accordance with the applicable provisions in appendix I, section 515 (the zoning code).

830.11. Tree maintenance and removal. 
	Subdivision 1. Restrictions for tree removal. It is unlawful to remove a tree from public land without approval from the city manager.
	Subd. 2. Standards for replacement. It is the intent of this section that significant, non-diseased trees removed from public property will be replaced on a "one for one" basis. For the purposes of this section, a significant tree is defined as either 
		(i) a deciduous tree with the diameter of 12 inches where the diameter is measured at four and one-half feet above ground level or 
		(ii) a coniferous tree with the diameter of eight inches where the diameter is measured at four and one-half feet above ground level. Replacement trees must have a diameter of five inches or greater. Replacement of trees may be completed by planting more than one tree, provided that replacement trees have a diameter of not less than three inches. Trees removed from public land which require replacement must be replaced in locations and varieties as specified by the city manager.
	Subd. 3. Exemption. Diseased and dead trees which are removed by the city are exempt from the provisions of this section. However, the city will endeavor to replace diseased trees in accordance with restrictions on locations in sections 515 and 800.

830.13. New development and redevelopment. 
	Subdivision 1. General rules. It is the intent of this section that a person owning vacant land or creating new commercial, industrial or multi-family development or undertaking the redevelopment of commercial, industrial or multi-family property in the city is to replace significant, non-diseased trees as specified for public property in subsection 830.11. Any development or redevelopment must be completed in accordance with an approved site plan that requires the replacement of significant, non-diseased trees on a "one for one" basis.
	Subd. 2. Protection. The property owner or developer or both as the case may be must take necessary precautions to protect existing trees that are not scheduled to be removed.
	Subd. 3. Performance guaranty. The property owner or developer or both as the case may be must provide the city with a performance bond as specified in section 515 of the city code to guarantee the proper installation and vigorous growth of all trees and plant materials.
	Subd. 4. Maintenance. Trees planted in accordance with this section must be maintained in accordance with the approved plan by the property owner.
	Subd. 5. Exemptions. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to trees removed from existing lots of record in R-1 and R-2 residential use districts that are developed with single family or two family dwellings on the effective date of this section.
	
830.15. Enforcement. The city manager enforces this section and rules and regulations concerning the protection, removal, planting, and maintenance of trees upon the right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the city.

830.17. Penalties. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
