Section 820 - Newsracks
820.01. 
	Subdivision 1. Definitions. For the purpose of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Newsrack" means a self-service or coin-operated box, container, storage unit or other dispenser installed, used, or maintained for the display and sale of newspapers or other news periodicals.
	Subd. 3. "Parkway" means that area between the sidewalks and the curb of any street, and where there is no sidewalk that area between the edge of the roadway and property line adjacent thereto.
	Subd. 4. "Roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
	Subd. 5. "Sidewalk" means any surface ordinarily used for pedestrian travel.
	Subd. 6. "Street" means that area dedicated to public use for public street purposes and must include, but not be limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks.
	
820.03. News racks; general rules. 
	Subdivision 1. Location in roadways. It is unlawful to install, use or maintain any newsrack which projects onto, into or over any part of the roadway.
	Subd. 2. Restrictions of parkways and sidewalks. Newsrack that in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any sidewalk, parkway, or public right-of-way property must comply with the following standards:
		a) The newsrack may not exceed five feet in height, 30 inches in width, or two feet in depth.
		b) Newsracks placed near the curb must be placed no less than two feet from the edge of the curb. Newsracks placed adjacent to the wall of a building must be placed parallel to such wall and not more than six inches from the wall.
		c) A newsrack may not be chained, bolted or otherwise attached to any city owned property. A newsrack may be bolted to parkways, provided that the owner of the newsrack must repair any damage done to parkways when the newsrack is removed.
		d) Newsracks may be chained or otherwise attached to one another; however, no more than three newsracks may be joined together in this manner, and a space of no less than 18 inches must separate each group of three newsracks so attached.
		e) A newsrack, or group of attached newsracks allowed under paragraph d) hereof, may not weigh, in the aggregate, in excess of 350 pounds when empty.
		f) A newsrack may not be placed, installed, used or maintained:
			1) within five feet of any marked crosswalk;
			2) within 12 feet of the curb return of any unmarked crosswalk;
			3) within 15 feet of any fire hydrant, fire call box, police call box or other emergency facility;
			4) within ten feet of any driveway;
			5) at any location whereby the clear space for the passageway of pedestrians is reduced to less than five feet unless such passageway is already restricted by a permanent fixture and the placement of the newsrack will not reduce the remaining passageway.
			6) at a location where the newsrack interferes with or hinders city removal of snow, ice, and debris from the roadway or sidewalk.
		g) A newsrack may not be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes other than that dealing with the display, sale or purchase of the newspaper or news periodical sold therein.
		h) A newsrack must be maintained in a clean and neat condition and in good repair at all times.
		
820.05. Identification. A person who places or maintains a newsrack on the streets of the city must have the name, address and telephone number of the owner affixed thereto in a place where such information may be easily seen and must inform the city engineer in writing where it has located a newsrack within ten business days after placing the newsrack on a parkway or sidewalk.

820.07. Insurance. A person placing newsracks in the city must provide proof of liability insurance in the amounts of $100,000 for any single accident, and $10,000 for property damage in which the city must be named an additional insured. A certificate of insurance must be delivered to the city clerk prior to the placement of the newsrack on a sidewalk or parkway.

820.09. Hold harmless agreement. A person placing a newsrack in the city must furnish a statement to the city clerk agreeing to defend and hold the city of Crystal harmless from any and all liability, judgments, damages, or expense that may arise or grow out of the installation, maintenance, use, presence, or removal of newsracks.

820.11. Violations. Upon determination by the city manager that a newsrack has been installed, used or maintained in violation of the provisions of this section, the manager must issue a written order to correct the offending condition to the owner of the newsrack. The order must specifically describe the offending condition and suggest actions necessary to correct the condition. Failure by the owner to properly correct the offending condition within seven days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) after the mailing date of the order will result in the newsrack being summarily removed and processed as unclaimed property under section 325.

820.13. Appeals. A person aggrieved by a finding, determination notice or action taken under the provisions of this section may appeal to the city council. The taking of an appeal to the city council will stay the removal of any newsrack until the city council makes its determination unless in the judgment of the city manager the newsrack presents a clear and present danger of imminent personal injury or property damage. Nothing contained in this section is to be interpreted to limit or impair the exercise by the city of its police power, in the event of an emergency, to remove a newsrack.

820.15. Abandonment. In the event a newsrack remains empty for a period of ten continuous days, the newsrack is deemed abandoned and may be treated in the manner as provided in subdivision 6 for newsracks found to be in violation of the provisions of this section.
