Section 1185 - Lawful gambling
1185.01. Lawful gambling. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. Pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.410, subdivision 5, as amended, lawful gambling may be conducted on premises licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquor by organizations licensed by the charitable gambling control board (board) under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 349, as amended, when a premises permit or bingo hall license, if required by law, therefor has been issued by the board. Non-profit organizations licensed by the board may conduct lawful gambling on the licensed premises or adjoining rooms of on sale liquor establishments provided the gambling is in compliance with the law and the requirements of this section are complied with. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-01)
	Subd. 2. Expanded premises for lawful gambling. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in section 1185, lawful gambling may be conducted on any premises for which the organization obtains a premises permit from the board. Lawful gambling conducted on any premises other than a licensed on sale liquor establishment is subject to all the terms and conditions of section 1185, except that (a) references to on sale establishments are deemed to include any other premises for which a lawful gambling premises permit has been issued, and (b) lawful gambling may be conducted on such premises only between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on any day. (Added, Ord. No. 2000-02, Sec. 1; Amended, Ord. No. 2001-06, Sec. 1)
	
1185.03. City review. 
	Subdivision 1. City investigation. Upon receipt of an application for an initial premises permit or bingo hall license and payment of the investigation fee required by subsection 1185.17 the city manager will refer the application to the police chief for a Computerized Criminal History (CCH) Investigation as authorized by section 311 of the city code. The police chief must as part of the CCH Investigation, obtain from the board data received by the board in the initial license application and premises permit application of the organization and other information that the board may have in its possession relating to the eligibility and qualifications of the licensed organization to conduct or continue to conduct lawful gambling at the premises specified in the permit application. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-11, Sec. 6; Ord. No. 2010-01)
	Subd. 2. City council action. The city council will review the initial application for a bingo hall license or premises permit. The council may by resolution decline to approve the initial application if in its judgment the conduct of lawful gambling at the premises by the applicant will adversely affect the public health, safety and welfare. The resolution approving an initial application shall be adopted by the council within 90 days of the date of application for the new permit and approval of the state license by the board. The council may by resolution suspend or revoke a previously granted premises or license permit where the board has suspended or revoked the state license, or where the permittee/licensee has engaged in conduct constituting grounds for the revocation or suspension of an intoxicating liquor license as specified in subsection 1005.21 of this code or both (i) and (ii) as the case may be. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-01)
	Subd. 3. Prior board approval. The city will not consider an application for an initial lawful gambling premises permit or bingo hall license unless (i) the application for the permit or license has been approved by the board or (ii) the board has indicated in writing to the city clerk that board approval is granted pending only the approval of the city council. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-01)

1185.05. Eligible organizations. 
	a) The city will consider for approval only premises permits or bingo hall licenses by organizations that are licensed by the board and meet all the conditions in subsection 1185.05, paragraph b). When an application is submitted to the city the city will presume that the applicant is eligible for the permit or license under state law but will make no independent investigation of that fact. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-18, Sec. 1)
	b) An organization shall not be eligible to conduct lawful gambling in the city unless it meets the requirements of Minnesota Statutes, section 349.16, as amended, and at least one of the following conditions are met for an initial application and a perpetual license: (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-01)
		1) The organization has at least 15 members that are residents of the city; or
		2) The physical site for the organization’s headquarters or the registered business office of the organization is located within the city or a municipality contiguous to the city and has been located within the city or a municipality contiguous to the city for at least two years immediately preceding application for a license; or
		3) The organization owns real property within the city and the lawful gambling is conducted on the property owned by the organization within the city; or
		4) The physical site where the organization regularly holds its meetings and conducts its activities, other than lawful gambling and fund raising, is within the city and has been located within the city for at least two years immediately preceding application for a license; or
		5) The organization is a fire relief organization that provides fire protection services to the city. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-18, Sec. 1)
		
1185.07. Limit of licenses. On sale establishments authorized to allow gambling are limited to one yearly lessee at premises licensed for on sale liquor sales in the city. The city council may by resolution authorize more than one organization to conduct lawful gambling activities at various locations for a limited period in connection with an annual civic celebration.

1185.09. Hours. Lawful gambling may be conducted only during the permitted hours of operation of the licensed on sale establishment.

1185.11. Leases; filing. A copy of the lease agreement between a non-profit organization and an on sale licensee must be filed with the city clerk within one week after execution of the lease. The lease must provide that the lessee may operate only after issuance of a license and premises permit from the board and be subject to the terms of this section.

1185.13. Distribution of proceeds. 
	a) Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall contribute to a fund administered and regulated by the city, without cost to such fund, for distribution by the city for purposes authorized under Minnesota Statutes, section 349.213, subdivision 1, an amount equal to 10% of the organization’s net profits derived from lawful gambling at premises within the city. For purposes of this subsection the term “net profits” means profits less amounts expended for allowable expenses; the terms “profits” and “allowable expenses” have the meanings given them by Minnesota Statutes, chapter 349 and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Payments to the fund shall be made annually on or before March 1 for the prior calendar year, and shall be submitted together with verifiable supporting documentation. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-18, Sec. 2; Ord. 2006-10, Sec. 1)
	b) Each organization conducting lawful gambling within the city must expend 15% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted or located within the trade area of the city. For the purposes of this subsection, the term “trade area” means the area within the boundaries of the city and within the boundaries of the cities of New Hope, Robbinsdale, Golden Valley, Brooklyn Center, and Brooklyn Park; provided that a contribution to Independent School District No. 281 is deemed to have been made in the trade area of the city. This subdivision applied only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross profits derived from lawful gambling conducted at premises within the city. On or before each March 1, each organization must file with the city (a) a report listing all lawful purpose expenditures in the prior calendar year, the name of the entity to whom each check was written, and the city location of the recipient; and (b) a report prepared by an independent certified public accountant documenting compliance with this subdivision. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-18, Sec. 2; Ord. 2006-10, Sec. 2)
	c) Each organization conducting lawful gambling within the City may apply the 10% net profits contribution requirement of subsection a) of this section, against the 15% lawful purpose expenditures requirement of subsection b) of this section. Such election shall be clearly disclosed in the report required by subsection b) of this section. (Added, Ord. 2006-10, Sec. 3)
	
1185.15. Filing. Organizations conducting lawful gambling in the city must file with the city clerk copies of records and reports filed with the board pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, chapter 349 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as each may be amended. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-01)

1185.17. Investigation fees. An organization applying for an initial premises permit or bingo hall license to conduct lawful gambling in the city must pay the investigation fee set by appendix IV. If the fee is not paid the council will not approve the permit or license under subsection 1185.03. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-01)
