Section 1105 - Auctioneers
1105.01. Auctions and auctioneers. 
	Subdivision 1. Definition. “Auctioneer” means any person who either as principal or agent engages in the occupation or profession of conducting sales at auction for others for hire, and who has been licensed as an auctioneer in the state of Minnesota.
	Subd. 2. License required. Except as provided in Subdivision 3, it is unlawful to conduct an auction sale in this city or act as an auctioneer at such an auction or engage in the profession of auctioneer within this city without a license from the city. A license is not necessary in order to conduct a judicial sale; a sale by an executor, administrator or guardian; a sale by a public officer in the manner prescribed by law; or a sale pursuant to statute to satisfy any lien upon the property sold.
	Subd. 3. Proof of county license. An auctioneer holding a current license from Hennepin county and who is in compliance with the bonding requirements of Minnesota Statutes, chapter 330, is not required to obtain a license from the city. An auctioneer licensed by the county must submit proof of county licensure and compliance with bonding requirements at least 14 days prior to an auction to be held in the city.

1105.03. Conditions. 
	Subdivision 1. Conduct. A person licensed as an auctioneer in the city is responsible for the manner in which that person conducts sales by auction; the conduct of such persons as may be employed to sell goods, wares or merchandise at a sale conducted by such auctioneer.
	Subd. 2. Misrepresentations. The licensee may not make or permit to be made by the licensee’s employees any untruthful statements or misrepresentations to bidders with reference to the articles offered for sale or as to the description, quality or kind of goods, wares or merchandise so offered.
	Subd. 3. Deceptive practices. The licensee may not employ, use or permit the employment or use of by bidders of persons commonly known as “cappers”, “boosters” or “shillers”, nor offer or knowingly permit any person to offer or make a false or pretended bid or by any other artifice attempt improperly to induce bidders to make offers or bids or to purchase any goods, wares or merchandise, nor practice or permit the practice of any species of fraud or deceit in the selling or offering of such goods, wares or merchandise for sale at auction.
	Subd. 4. Incentives. An auctioneer may not offer or give or permit to be offered or given any promises of merchandise or otherwise as an incentive to bidders.
	Subd. 5. Noises. An auctioneer may not sell or attempt to sell or offer or cry for sale at public auction in the city any goods, chattels, wares, merchandise or personal property to any person upon the sidewalks or streets within the city, nor may any person by ringing a bell, gong, or triangle, or any loud cries upon any of the streets or sidewalks give notice of any auction or sale of any kind in the city.
