Section 1137 - Tobacco
(Added, Ord No. 98-2)
1137.01. Definition. “Tobacco” means cigarettes; cigars; cheroots; stogies, perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff, snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco and other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or other tobacco-related devices. means any substance or product containing tobacco leaf, including, but not limited to, cigars, cigarettes, snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco or cigarette paper or wrappers.

1137.03. General rule; application required. 
	Subdivision 1. It is unlawful to buy for retail sale, sell at retail, or otherwise dispose for consideration tobacco without a license. (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. Application required; contents. An application form provided by the city clerk must be completed by every applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing license. Every new applicant must provide all the following information:
		a) Applicant name and address, including the name of the business if it is to be conducted under a designation, name, or style other than the name of the applicant as a natural person, and a copy of the certificate issued by the Minnesota Secretary of State, as required by Minnesota Statutes, Section 333.01 as it may be amended.
		b) If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and complete copy of the executed lease.
	Subd. 3. Application execution. All applications for a license under this chapter must be signed and certified by the applicant. If the application is that of a natural person, it must be signed and certified by such person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that of an unincorporated association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
	Subd. 4 Combination applications. The information required of the licensee may be combined with the application requirements of an additional license, such as licenses regulated by Section 1200 to minimize duplication in the application process.
	Subd. 5. Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of a license the applicant must file with the city clerk satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" shall be shown by a certification under oath that the property taxes, public utility bills, and all state and federal taxes or other governmental obligations or claims concerning the business entity applying for the license are current, and that no notice of delinquency or default has been issued, or if any of the financial obligations stated in this subsection are delinquent or in default, that any such delinquency or default is subject to a payment plan or other agreement approved by the applicable governmental entity. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" as required by this subsection shall in addition be shown by any individual applicant and all individual owners and/or shareholders of the business entity. Operation of a business licensed under this section without having on-going evidence on file with the city of the financial responsibility required by this subdivision is grounds for revocation or suspension of the license.

1137.05. Fees. The license fee is set by appendix IV. The license expires on December 31 annually. The license fee may be prorated for a portion of a year.

1137.07. Restriction. A tobacco product license will not be issued for a movable place of business. The license is issued only for the sale of tobacco products at a specific place of business.

1137.09. Prohibited sales and use. 
	Subdivision 1. Sales to minors. It is unlawful to sell, offer for sale or deliver tobacco to a person under the age of 18 years.
	Subd. 2. Use by minors. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to purchase, possess, or consume tobacco.
	Subd. 3. Vending machines. The sale of tobacco by coin operated vending machines is prohibited.
	Subd. 4. Individual packages. It is unlawful to offer for sale or to sell (i) cigarettes packaged in units smaller than a carton containing ten packages or (ii) single packages of smokeless tobacco in open displays that are accessible to the public without the intervention of a store employee.
	
1137.11. Penalties. 
	Subdivision 1. Misdemeanors. A person who violates this section or Minnesota Statutes Chapter 297F, each as amended, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 2. Administrative civil penalties; individuals. A person who sells tobacco to a person under the age of 18 years is subject to an administrative penalty. A person under the age of 18 who attempts to purchase tobacco is subject to an administrative penalty. The city council may impose administrative penalties under this subdivision as follows:
		First violation: a civil fine in an amount up to $750.
		Second violation within 24 months after the first violation: a civil fine in an amount up to $1,500.
		Third violation within 24 months after the first violation: a civil fine in an amount up to $2,000. (Amended, Ord. No. 2001-07, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 2014 - 01)
	Subd. 3. Administrative civil penalties; licensee. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee is found to have sold tobacco to a person under the age of 18 years, or committed a violation of Minnesota Statutes Chapter 297F, as amended, the city council may impose an administrative penalty as follows: (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 2)
		First violation: a civil fine in an amount up to $750 and license suspension for a period up to one day.
		Second violation within 24 months after the first violation: a civil fine in an amount up to $1,500 and suspension of license for a period of up to 5 days.
		Third violation within 24 months after the first violation: a civil fine in an amount up to $2,000 and suspension of license for a period of up to 10 days.
		Fourth violation within 36 months after the first violation: revocation of license. (Amended, Ord. No. 2001-07, Sec. 2; Ord. No. 2002-09, Sec. 1, Ord. No. 2014-1)
	Subd. 4. Defense. It is an affirmative defense to a charge of selling tobacco to a person under the age of 18 years in violation of this section that the licensee or individual making the sale relied in good faith upon proof of age as described in Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503, subdivision 6.
	Subd. 5. Education and training. In addition to or in lieu of any other penalty imposed under this section, any person under the age of 18 years who purchases, possesses, or consumes tobacco may be required to attend an educational seminar approved by the chief of police regarding the legal and medical implications of tobacco use.
	Subd. 6. Presumptions regarding administrative penalties. The administrative penalties described in subdivisions 2 and 3 of this section are the presumed sanctions for the violations indicated. In the event of any license suspension imposed under subdivision 3, the city council may select which days a suspension will be served. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision 3, a license may be revoked for any violation of this section when in the judgment of the council it is appropriate to do so. The city council may impose lesser penalties under subdivisions 2 and 3 when in the judgment of the council it is appropriate to do so, provided that in no event will the amount of any fine or period of suspension be less than the amounts and periods specified in Minnesota Statutes, section 461.12, subdivisions 2 and 3, as amended. The city council may by resolution revise the amount of the above civil penalties stated in subdivisions 2 and 3 above, in Appendix IV. Other mandatory requirements may be made of the establishment, including but not limited to, meetings with the Police Department staff to present a plan of action to assure that the problem will not continue, mandatory education sessions with Crime Prevention staff, or other actions that the City Council deems appropriate. (Added, Ord. No. 2001-07, Sec. 3, Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 2)
	
1137.13. Compliance monitoring. 
	Subdivision 1. The police department must periodically, but at least once a year, perform compliance checks on all cigarette licensees in the city. License applicants must be informed of this policy at the time of license application and renewal. Violators of this section may be subject to more frequent compliance monitoring than non-violating licensees. The police department must make an annual report to the city council on the compliance checks conducted pursuant to this section.
	Subd. 2. Exemption. A person no younger than 15 nor older than 17 may be enlisted by the police department to assist in the compliance checks provided that (i) written consent from the person’s parent or guardian has been obtained, and (ii) that the person must at all times act only under the direct supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the licensing department or in conjunction with an in-house program that has been pre-approved by the police department. A person who purchases or attempts to purchase tobacco while acting in this capacity is exempt from the penalties imposed by this section.
	Subd. 3. Additional checks. If a licensee or employee of a licensee is guilty of a second violation within the 24-month period since the initial violation, the police department must conduct at least one compliance check at that licensed premises within the time remaining in that 24-month period.
