Section 1125 - Automatic dry cleaning and laundromats
1125.01. License required. It is unlawful to operate a coin-operated dry cleaning or self-service dry cleaning machine without a coin-operated dry cleaning license from the city. The license fee is set by appendix IV and may be prorated for a period of less than one year.

1125.03. Design. 
	Subdivision 1. Type and location of building. A building that is to be used for coin-operated dry cleaning must be approved by the building inspector, the planning commission and council prior to installation of machinery or equipment. Approval of a basement except for furnace and boilers for this type of establishment will not be granted, and a part of a dwelling may not be used for a coin-operated dry cleaning business. The building must be a single story structure with concrete floors in good condition, of adequate size and height to conform to installation, layout, venting and safety provisions of this code.
	Subd. 2. Plans and layout. Plans, layout, number of machines, venting, type of operation, a diagram of the solvent system, location of the boiler and furnace, must be submitted to the building inspector and the fire marshal prior to the installation thereof. Approval of the building inspector and the fire marshal is necessary prior to the granting of a license to operate. The proprietor must furnish the city with up-to-date, detailed installation, operating and maintenance manuals of the dry cleaning equipment machines to be installed.

1125.05. License conditions. 
	Subdivision 1. Compliance. Until all the installation, operation, venting, health and safety requirements for this section are complied with, a license will not be granted to the owner or operator of a coin-operated dry cleaning business.
	Subd. 2. Revocation. Failure on the part of the proprietor or operator of this type of business to maintain proper installation, operation, venting and health and safety standards is grounds for suspension or revocation of the license by the council.
	Subd. 3. Combustible fluids. Licensed establishments must use a noncombustible cleaning fluid as prescribed by the manufacturer such as perchloroethylene and no ether fluid. The use of a combustible fluid such as naphtha, benzine or other combustible solvent or fluid is grounds for the revocation of the license.
	Subd. 4. Inspection. The building inspector, fire marshal or health officer may enter the premises at any reasonable hour to obtain samples of the solvent or of the air and to insure compliance with this code.
	
1125.07. Toilet facilities. Separate rest rooms must be provided for each sex for each establishment. A minimum of one toilet and one lavatory must be provided for each rest room.

1125.09. Operator must be present. A competent, trained operator must be present at all times as long as the dry cleaning machines can be operated by the public. In the event such operator is not present then the dry cleaning machines must be made non-operative.

1125.11. Dry cleaning solvents. 
	Subdivision 1. Storage. Dry cleaning solvents must be stored in closed containers, and must be transferred from the containers in a line free of leaks. Storage facilities for solvent, external from the equipment, must meet the requirements of this section.
	Subd. 2. Residue. Filter residue and other residues containing solvent must be disposed of so as not to create a health hazard or nuisance. A covered metal container must be used for temporary storage in a ventilated room inaccessible to the public, or outside in a fenced and locked area.
	Subd. 3. Protective equipment. Respirator protective equipment must be provided for maintenance personnel and must be kept in good repair and available for immediate use. Chemical cartridge respirators are approved for light solvent concentrations and the wearer must replace the cartridges immediately upon noting odor.
	Subd. 4. Fire protection. A utility fire extinguisher, approved by the fire marshal, must be installed of either the carbon dioxide or dry chemical type and must be kept filled and in working condition for use against electrical or oil fires.
	Subd. 5. Boiler; furnace. The location and construction of the boiler and furnace must be inspected and approved by the building inspector and fire marshal prior to operation thereof.
	
1125.13. Machine operation. 
	Subdivision 1. Exhaust flow rate. Only the front or customer side of the dry cleaning machine may be exposed in the customer area. The working or maintenance portion of the equipment must be separated from the front of the machine by a solid partition. As a means of minimizing any solvent build-up in the customer area and also to control any minor solvent leakage, there must be a minimum flow rate from the customer area through the partition as follows:
		Number Minimum flow rate
		of machines per machine (CFM)
		1 - 3 500
		4 - 8 400
		9 - 16 375
		17 or more 360
		(Example: an eight machine installation requires a minimum continuous exhaust flow rate of 3200 CFM.)
		The exhaust ventilation must be provided on a continuous basis while the store is open for business. The fan wiring must be such that the dry cleaning equipment cannot be operated unless the fan system is in operation. Where grille openings are installed in the partition to facilitate air movement, they should be sized on the basis of about 500 CFM per square foot of net grille area and should be placed as close to the machine as possible. An example would be the use of a 30 inch by six inch grille located directly over a machine. Access doors to the maintenance area must be kept locked.
		Subd. 2. Ventilating fan. A general ventilation fan must be installed in the back room or maintenance area to be used in case of serious solvent leakage. This fan may be installed in the rear wall and must have a minimum exhaust capacity of 1000 CFM per machine.
		Subd. 3. Exhaust system. The cleaning equipment must be provided with an exhaust system capable of maintaining a minimum of 100 feet per minute face velocity through the loading door whenever the door is open. The ductwork connections from this system must be soldered and the discharge stack extended to a minimum height of five feet above the roof line.
		Subd. 4. Leak prevention. A satisfactory means of preventing liquid leaks from escaping the enclosure must be provided. This includes a method of “diking” the floor of the enclosure or machine base to hold a liquid volume equal to the maximum quantity of solvent which might possibly escape from the system. A means must be provided for draining solvent in the event of a leak and containment. This must be done by gravity flow with the solvent transferred to a standby holding tank. This tank must be vented to the outside.
		Subd. 5. Interlock system. An interlock system must be provided on the machine to prevent the loading door from being opened during the normal cycle. This system may be either electrical or mechanical and so connected that in the event of a power failure the machine will operate in a safe manner.
		Subd. 6. Instruction list. A step by step instruction list must be posted in a conspicuous location near the machine for customer use.
		Subd. 7. Solvent sensing device. An approved solvent vapor sensing device, timer or other equivalent device must be installed within the tumbler to control the drying cycle and to prevent the removal of solvent-laden garments.
		Subd. 8. Solvent tests. The machine design must be such that essentially no solvent is retained in the cleaned items upon completion of the dry cleaning cycle. A simple performance test which must be satisfied is the lack of any solvent odor in a closed automobile containing a newly cleaned load.
		Subd. 9. Proprietor’s responsibility. The proprietor must make certain that clothing which cannot be properly cleaned and dried will not be placed in the machines.
		Subd. 10. Machine checks. The machine must be checked daily and kept in good repair. All maintenance personnel must be familiar with necessary machine repairs and instructed as to the solvent hazards.
		Subd. 11. Solvent odors. Solvent control is to be such that under normal operation and use conditions no solvent odor can be detected in the customer area. The concentration of solvent in the air in the customer area may not exceed 100 ppm as determined by approved Halide protection devices.
		Subd. 12. Make-up air. A supply of tempered (heated to 60 or 65 degrees F.) make-up air equal to or greater than the total volume of air exhausted from the plant must be provided in order to eliminate any negative pressure conditions.
		Subd. 13. Air contaminations. Solvent contaminated air even in very low concentrations (5-20 ppm) must be kept out of the air intakes of all combustion equipment so as to minimize the thermal decomposition of the solvent. Break-down products such as hydrochloric acid, free chlorine and phosgene corrode metal surfaces including flues and heat components and can seriously damage cloth through acid burns or weakening of fibers.
		Subd. 14. Ventilating stacks. Exhaust ventilation stacks from dry cleaning machines must be located as far as possible from combustion air or drier air intakes.
		
1125.15. Laundromats. 
	Subdivision 1. License. It is unlawful to operate a laundromat within the city that is used by the general public to wash or dry clothes without a license from the city. The license fee is set by appendix IV and may be prorated for a period of less than one year.
	Subd. 2. Definition. “Laundromat” means an installation of two or more laundry machines at a given location for the water washing of clothes or the drying of wet clothes by the general public upon the payment of a stated charge. Such installation may have coin-activated machines and may contain other related laundry treatment equipment or facilities.
	
1125.17. General licensing requirements. All machines must be kept in good operating condition. Instructions as to how to use the machine must be conspicuously posted on the premises. Each proprietor must be responsible for keeping order at his place of business and must comply with the city ordinances and state law. Soft water must be provided for all washing machines. Hot water must be supplied in sufficient quantity to operate all of the washing machines efficiently at the same time. Premises must be kept clean, well-lighted and presentable in appearance.

1125.19. Toilet facilities. Separate rest rooms must be provided for each sex for each establishment. A minimum of one toilet and one lavatory must be provided for each rest room.
