Section 1131 – Fireworks
(Added, Ord. No. 2002-05, Sec. 1)
1131.01. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate the sale of permitted consumer fireworks in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general public. The city council makes the following findings regarding the need to license and regulate the sale, distribution, storage and display of fireworks permitted under state law:
	a) Consumer fireworks contain pyrotechnic chemical compositions that are combustible; accordingly, the unregulated accumulation, storage, display and sale of these items present a fire safety hazard; and
	b) The improper disposal of consumer fireworks presents environmental hazards; and
	c) Due to their short-term and mobile nature, it is more difficult and demanding of city staff and public safety resources to enforce compliance with city ordinance and state law for temporary and transient sales of consumer fireworks than it is for established, permanent business.
	
1131.03. Sale of fireworks. It is unlawful to sell fireworks in the city of Crystal in violation of Minnesota Statutes, sections 624.20 through 624.25, inclusive, which are adopted by reference. “Consumer fireworks” as defined in this section may, however, be sold upon issuance of a license issued by the city.

1131.05. Definition. For the purposes of this section “consumer fireworks” is defined to mean wire or wood sparklers of not more than 100 grams of mixture per item, other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and nonaerial and contain 75 grams or less of chemical mixture per tube or a total of 200 grams or less for multiple tubes, snakes and glow worms, smoke devices, or trick noisemakers which include paper streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and drop pops, each consisting of not more than twenty-five hundredths grains of explosive mixture.

1131.07. 
	Subdivision 1. Application. The application for a license shall contain the following information: name, address, and telephone number of applicant; the address of the location where fireworks will be sold; the type of consumer fireworks to be sold; the estimated quantity of consumer fireworks that will be stored on the licensed premises.
	Subd. 2. License prohibitions. No license shall be issued for the sale of permitted consumer fireworks at a movable place of business, including without limitation, mobile sales made from motorized vehicles, mobile sales kiosks, non-permanent stands or trailers or to transient merchants or as a seasonal or temporary sales license, unless the place of business complies with National Fire Protection Association Standard 1124 (2003 edition). (Amended, Ord. No. 2003-2)
	
1131.09. Processing application. The application must be filed with the city clerk together with the license fee. Following an inspection of the premises proposed to be licensed, the city manager or manager’s designee shall issue the license if the conditions for license approval are satisfied and the location is properly zoned. If the city manager or manager’s designee denies the license application, the applicant may, within ten days, appeal the decision to the city council. (Amended, Ord. No. 2003-2)

1131.11. Conditions of license. The license shall be issued subject to the following conditions:
	a) The license is non-transferable, either to a different person or location.
	b) The display of items for sale must comply with National Fire Protection Association Standard 1124 (2003 edition), which is incorporated herein by reference. (Amended, Ord. No. 2003-2)
	c) The license must be publicly displayed on the licensed premises.
	d) The premises are subject to inspection by city employees during normal business hours.
	e) The applicant must be at least 18 years of age.
	f) If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and correct copy of the current, executed lease, as well as, the written authorization of the property owner for the applicant’s use of the property for the sale of permitted consumer fireworks.
	g) The sale of consumer fireworks must be allowed by the zoning ordinance and must comply with all zoning ordinance requirements including signs.
	h) The applicant shall not have had a license to sell fireworks revoked within the last three years.
	i) The premises must be in compliance with the state building code and state fire code.
	
1131.13. License period and license fee. Licenses shall be issued for a calendar year. The license fee is established by resolution in appendix IV of the Crystal city code. License fees shall not be prorated. (Amended, Ord. No. 2003-2)

1131.15. Revocation of license. Following written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the city manager or manager’s designee may revoke a license for violation of this section or state law concerning the sale, use or possession of fireworks. If a license is revoked, neither the applicant nor the licensed premises may obtain a license for 12 months. If the city manager or manager’s designee revokes a license, the license holder may within ten days appeal the decision to the city council. (Amended, Ord. No. 2003-2)
