Section 1145 -Motor scooter, motorcycle and motor bike rentals
1145.01. Motorcycle rentals. 
	Subdivision 1. License. It is unlawful to engage in the business of furnishing, leasing or offering for rent motorcycles without a motorcycle rental license from the city.
	Subd. 2. Definition. “Motorcycle” means a motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, including motor scooters and bicycles with motor attached, but excluding a tractor.
	Subd. 3. License fees. The license fees are set by appendix IV. A license will not be issued for a fractional part of the calendar year.
	
1145.03. Conditions of license. 
	Subdivision 1. Insurance. The applicant for a license must submit an insurance policy in force by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state of Minnesota, to be kept in force for the remainder of the license year, insuring such person, firm or corporation, their lessees or renters driving each of its motorcycles as defined herein against loss in the sum of at least $25,000 for injury to or death of any one person in any one accident and $50,000 per injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident and $5,000 because of damage to or destruction of property in any one accident resulting from the negligent ownership, operation, use or defective condition of any motorcycle belonging to such licensee. The policy of insurance must contain an endorsement to the effect that such policy covers operators and passengers of motorcycles leased or rented to minors and further, that the city must be notified by letter addressed to the city clerk thereof at least ten days prior to the cancellation of such policy of insurance.
	Subd. 2. Rentals to licensed drivers. The licensee may not rent or lease a motorcycle to any person except the holder of a valid Minnesota driver’s license and subject to the limitations prescribed therein.
	Subd. 3. Condition. Rented vehicles must be kept in good operating condition by the licensee.
	Subd. 4. Instructions. The licensee must explain the operation including the controls, pedals, gears and brakes of the particular motorcycle to be used by each person leasing the same prior to driving the motorcycle unless the licensee is aware that the person knows how to operate the same. The licensee must stress safety and call attention to the user thereof of:
		a) the high maneuverability of the motorcycle, and
		b) the lack of protection of the person, of the driver or passenger, if the vehicle is upset.
		
1145.05. Investigation. The chief of police must investigate the traffic conditions in the immediate vicinity of applicant’s proposed motorcycle place of business, particularly on weekends and holidays, and make a report thereof to the city manager who must send copies to the city council.
