Section 1100 - Amusements and amusement devices
1100.01. Activities licensed. It is unlawful to operate within the city a circus, theatrical performance, show, dance hall, merry-go-round, ferris wheel, shooting gallery, pool table, billiard table, bowling alley, or any game or performance, or any apparatus or device for which a fee, price or admission is charged without a license.

1100.03. Applications for amusement license. An applicant for an amusement or amusement device license must appear in person before the council and present a written application stating in detail the nature and scope of the activity contemplated to be operated. Upon council approval, the application procedure of appendix IV applies. The license fees for activities licensed under this section are set by appendix IV.

1100.05. Fortune tellers. Fortune tellers, astrologers or persons practicing palmistry, clairvoyancy, mesmerism or persons giving exhibitions or practicing or using any device for the purpose of telling fortunes, or spiritualistic readings, or sittings, or exhibitions of such character, will not be granted a license for any such purpose unless the person has been a resident of this city for at least six months preceding the issuance of such license, and unless the person so applying will, before the issuance of such license, make and execute a bond for the sum of $200, with sureties approved by the council, conditioned for an observance of this code.

1100.07. Billiard tables and bowling alleys. It is unlawful to operate a billiard table, pool table, pigeonhole table, or a nine or ten pin bowling alley within 500 feet of any public building in the city.

1100.09. Mechanical amusement devices. 
	Subdivision 1. Defined. “Mechanical amusement device” means any machine, which, upon the insertion of a coin or slug, operates or may be operated or used for a game, contest, or amusement of any description.
	Subd. 2. License required. It is unlawful to maintain, keep or sell within the city, a mechanical amusement device without a license therefor from the council. This section does not apply to mechanical amusement devices held or kept in storage or for sale, and which are not actually in use or displayed for use.
	Subd. 3. License fees. Licenses for mechanical amusement devices must be issued by the clerk after the applications therefor have been approved by the council and the license fees required have been paid.
	Subd. 4. Gambling prohibited. It is unlawful to permit the operation of such a machine or device for the making of side bets or gambling in any form. No prize, award, merchandise, gift, money or anything of value may be given to any player of such machine or device.

1100.11. Trampolines. 
	Subdivision 1. License. It is unlawful to practice or exercise or engage in the business of operation of any trampoline, jumping, tumbling or exercising devices within the city for which a fee, price or admission is charged without having first procured and obtained a license therefor.
	Subd. 2. Special use permit. A person wishing to obtain a license under this subsection must submit the following along with the application to the planning commission and council for approval of a conditional use permit as provided for in the zoning code:
		a) Site location.
		b) Plans and layout of the business operation showing type and height of fences, lighting, buildings or structures, apparatus or equipment involved.
	Subd. 3. Safety devices. The area containing jumping, trampoline, or exercising devices for use by the public must be fenced or otherwise enclosed as recommended by the chief building inspector and approved by the council. The fence or enclosure must be provided with a gate, gates, a door or doors. The gates or doors must be locked when the jumping or exercising devices are not in use or when no attendant is present. The area must be provided with proper lighting as approved by the chief building inspector. Business operations must be scheduled so that the gates or doors may be locked no later than 11:00 p.m. An attendant must be present at all times while members of the public are engaged in or using the trampoline, jumping or tumbling devices.
	Subd. 4. Insurance. An applicant for a license must present with the application a certificate of liability insurance. The certificate must be issued by an insurance carrier licensed to do business in the state of Minnesota in the limits of $25,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person per accident, and $50,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons per accident, and $5,000 property damage per accident. The certificate must be kept up-to-date by notification to the clerk of changes in coverage and changes of carriers prior to the effective date of the change.

1100.13. Miniature golf. 
	Subdivision 1. Definition. The term “miniature golf course” means one or more golf putting greens for which an admission price is charged.
	Subd. 2. License required. It is unlawful to engage in the business or operation of a miniature golf course without a license therefor from the city.
	Subd. 3. Application. An applicant must submit a detailed scale layout of the operation showing the location of the greens, lighting, fences, building, structures and other equipment included in the plot. The application must have attached thereto liability insurance policies as set forth herein, the name of the operator, approval of the lighting by the electrical inspector and of the building, fence and structures by the building inspector, approval of the plot plan and off street parking for the miniature golf course by the city engineer.
	Subd. 4. Liability insurance. The licensee must keep in force liability insurance by a corporation, or corporations, authorized to write insurance in the state of Minnesota during the license year. The liability insurance must protect the licensee against loss in the sum of at least $100,000 for injury to or death of any one person in any one accident, and $300,000 for injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident, and $25,000 because of damage to or destruction of property in any one accident resulting from the ownership, operation, or control of the licensed premises or the activities carried on therein. There must appear thereon that the city of Crystal must be notified, in writing, at least ten days prior to the cancellation of such policy of insurance.
	Subd. 5. Lighting. Miniature golf courses must be so lighted as to cause no shadows to be cast on the greens and so shielded as to cause no direct lighting to shine off the premises.
	Subd. 6. Operator. There must be on duty at all times that the miniature golf course is open to the public an adult operator or manager who is at least 21 years of age.
	Subd. 7. Hours of operation. Miniature golf courses may not operate between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
	Subd. 8. Fencing. Six foot high screen fencing of the city approved type suitable to screen abutting residential properties must be permanently installed at or near the property line of a miniature golf course.
	Subd. 9. Noise. The use of microphones or other amplifying devices so as to cause attention to be directed to the premises is prohibited as is the loud playing of music, the use of barkers and other noise that is not the necessary and usual use of the premises by the public.
