Section 1175 - Secondhand goods dealers: pawnbrokers
(Repealed, Ord. No. 2005-19, Sec. 1)
(Added, Ord. No. 2005-19, Sec. 2)

Section 1175-Secondhand goods dealers
1175.01. Definitions. For purposes of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 1. “Secondhand goods dealer” means a person whose regular business includes selling or receiving tangible personal property (excluding motor vehicles) previously used, rented, owned or leased.

1175.03. Exemptions. This section does not apply to or include the following:
	a) The sale of secondhand goods where all of the following conditions are present:
		1) the sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the seller, or owned, rented or leased by a charitable or political organization;
		2) the items offered for sale are owned by the occupant;
		3) the sale does not exceed a period of 72 consecutive hours;
		4) not more than two sales are held either by the same person or on the same property in any 12 month period; and
		5) none of the items offered for sale have been purchased for resale or received on consignment for purpose of resale.
	b) sales by a person licensed under section 1110 as a motor vehicle dealer;
	c) the sale of secondhand books or magazines;
	d) the sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer pursuant to section 1105;
	e) the business of buying or selling only those secondhand goods taken as part or full payment for new goods, and where such business is incidental to and not the primary business of a person;
	f) a bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established place of business or of goods sold at open sale from bankrupt stock;
	g) goods sold at a public market;
	h) goods sold at an exhibition;
	i) the sale of secondhand clothing and personal clothing accessories including costume jewelry but excluding other jewelry; provided, however, that a license is required under subsection 1175.11 for which the annual fee is set by appendix IV;
	j) the sale of items that have been donated to the seller and not purchased or received on consignment for resale by the seller; provided, however, that a license is required under subsection 1175.11 for which the annual fee is set by appendix IV;
	k) transactions involving coins, bullion, or ignots; (Amended Ord. No. 2011-12, Sec.1)
	l) the sale of refurbished appliances by a retail dealer in new and used appliances where the used appliances are refurbished at a location off-site from the retail sales location, and where the dealer does not accept appliances for trade in at the retail location. (Amended Ord. 2011-12, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 2015 - 02).
	
1175.05. License required. 
	Subdivision 1. Secondhand goods dealer. A person may not engage in the business of secondhand goods dealer without first obtaining a secondhand goods dealer license.
	Subd. 2. Separate license required. A secondhand goods dealer may not conduct, operate or engage in the business of pawnbroker without having obtained a pawnbroker license as required by section 1177, in addition to a secondhand goods dealer license.

1175.07. Multiple dealers. 
	Subdivision 1. Licenses. The owner of a business, at which two or more secondhand goods dealers are engaged in business by maintaining separate sales space and identifying themselves to the public as individual dealers, may obtain a multiple secondhand goods dealer license for that location. A multiple license may not be issued unless the following requirements are met:
		a) the businesses must have a single name and address;
		b) the businesses must operate in a compact and contiguous space;
		c) the businesses must be under the unified control and supervision of the one person who holds the license; and
		d) sales must be consummated at a central point or register operated by the owner of the business, and the owner must maintain a comprehensive account of all sales.
	Subd. 2. Compliance. The holder of a secondhand goods dealer license under this section for a business with more than one dealer at the same location must comply with all of the requirements of this section, including the responsibility for police reporting and record keeping in the same manner as any other dealer licensed under this section. A dealer licensed under this subsection is responsible to its customers for stolen or misrepresented goods sold at its place of business in the same manner as any other dealer licensed under this section.
	
1175.09. License fee. 
	Subdivision 1. Secondhand goods dealer. The annual license fee for a secondhand goods dealer, and a secondhand goods dealer also licensed as a pawnbroker, is set by appendix IV.
	Subd. 2. Multiple sales. The annual license fee for a secondhand goods dealer for a location where more than one secondhand goods dealer is engaged in business, is set by appendix IV.

1175.11 Application required. 
	Subdivision 1. Contents. An application form provided by the city clerk must be completed by every applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing license. Every new applicant must provide all the following information: (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 3)
		a) If the applicant is a natural person:
			1) The name, place and date of birth, street resident address, and phone number of applicant.
			2) Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or resident alien.
			3) Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names used and information concerning dates and places used.
			4) The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a designation, name, or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified copy of the certificate as required by Minnesota Statutes, Section 333.01 as it may be amended.
			5) The street address at which the applicant has lived during the preceding five years.
			6) The type, name and location of every business or occupation in which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any, for the proceeding five years.
			7) Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time, place, and offense of all such convictions.
			8) The physical description of the applicant.
			9) Applicant’s current personal financial statement and true copies of the applicant’s federal and state tax returns for the two years prior to application.
			10) If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning each of them required in a) through d) of subdivision 1 of subsection 1175.11.
		b) If the applicant is a partnership:
			1) The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners and all information concerning each general partner required in subdivision 1 of this section.
			2) The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each partner in the licensed business.
			3) A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a trade name pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 333.01, as it may be amended, a certified copy of such certificate must be attached to the application.
			4) A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for partnership for the two years prior to application.
			5) If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning each of them required in a) through d) of subdivision 1 of subsection 1175.11.
		c) If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
			1) The name of the corporation or business form, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation.
			2) A true copy of the Certificate of Incorporation, Articles of Incorporation or Association Agreement, and By-laws shall be attached to the application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a Certificate of Authority as required by Minnesota Statutes, section 303.06, as it may be amended, must be attached. Any proposed change in either the articles or the by-laws of the corporation must be reported to the city clerk 14 days prior to the date such change is to be adopted by the corporation. In the case of a corporate application the application must also describe fully the relationship of the corporation to any other corporation including the name, business address, state of incorporation, names of stockholders, directors and officers thereof as provided hereafter, but in the case of publicly held corporations the city manager may accept disclosure documents required by the Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States of America in lieu of such information.
			3) The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor, or agent required in a) through d) of subdivision 1 of subsection 1175.11.
			4) A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess of 5% in such organization or business form or who are officers of the corporation or business form and all information concerning said persons required in subdivision 1 above. This subdivision c), however, shall not apply to a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a stock exchange and is applying for a license to be owned and operated by it.
		d) For all applicants:
			1) Whether the applicant holds a business license from any other governmental unit.
			2) Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked or suspended, a business license from any other governmental unit.
			3) The location of the business premises.
			4) If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and complete copy of the executed lease.
			5) The legal description of the premises to be licensed.
			6) Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid.
			7) Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must be accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed premises to be licensed.
			8) Such other information as the city council or issuing authority may require.
	Subd. 2. Manager. When a licensee places a manager in charge of a business, or if the named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes, the licensee must complete and submit the appropriate application within 14 days. The application must include all appropriate information required in this section. (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 3) Upon completion of an investigation of a new manager, the licensee must pay an amount equal to the cost of the investigation to assure compliance with this chapter. If the investigation process is conducted solely within the state of Minnesota, the fee shall be $500.00. If the investigation is conducted outside the state of Minnesota, the issuing authority may recover the actual investigation costs not exceeding $10,000.00.
	Subd. 3. Application execution. All applications for a license under this chapter must be signed and certified by the applicant. If the application is that of a natural person, it must be signed and certified by such person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that of an unincorporated association, by the manager or managing officer thereof. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec.3)
	Subd. 4. Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of a license the applicant must file with the city clerk satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" shall be shown by a certification under oath that the property taxes, public utility bills, and all state and federal taxes or other governmental obligations or claims concerning the business entity applying for the license are current, and that no notice of delinquency or default has been issued, or if any of the financial obligations stated in this subsection are delinquent or in default, that any such delinquency or default is subject to a payment plan or other agreement approved by the applicable governmental entity. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" as required by this subsection shall in addition be shown by any individual applicant and all individual owners and/or shareholders of the business entity. Operation of a business licensed under this section without having on-going evidence on file with the city of the financial responsibility required by this subdivision is grounds for revocation or suspension of the license. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec.3)
	Subd. 5. Fees. The application must be accompanied by the required license fee. The fee will be returned to the applicant if the application is rejected. (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec.3)
	Subd. 6. False statements. It is unlawful to knowingly make a false statement in the license application. In addition to all other penalties, the license may be subsequently revoked by the city council for a violation of this subsection. (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec.3)

1175.13. Bond. A secondhand goods dealer license will not be issued unless the applicant files with the city clerk a bond with corporate surety, cash, or a United States government bond in the amount of $3,000. The bond must be conditioned on the licensee obeying the laws and ordinances governing the licensed business and paying all fees, taxes, penalties and other charges associated with the business. The bond must provide that it is forfeited to the city upon a violation of law or ordinance.

1175.15. Site plan. The application for a secondhand goods dealer license must be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale. The site plan must contain:
	a) a legal description of the property upon which the proposed licensed premises is situated;
	b) a plot plan;
	c) the exact location of the licensed premises on the property, customer and employee parking areas, accesses onto the property, and entrances into the premises;
	d) the location of and distance from the nearest church, school, hospital, and residence; and
	e) a floor plan of the licensed premises.

1175.17. Investigations. 
	Subdivision 1. Duties of chief of police. A new or renewal application for a license as a secondhand goods dealer will be referred to the chief of police for a CCH Investigation as authorized by section 311 of the city code, of each individual. Every individual or person having any beneficial interest in the license must be so investigated. The chief must make necessary inquiry and list all violations of federal and state law or municipal ordinance including verified complaints that occurred at the establishment being investigated while under the same ownership. The chief must report the findings and comments to the manager who must order or conduct such additional investigations as the manager deems necessary or as the council directs. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-11, Sec. 4, Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 4)
	Subd. 2. Fee. The fee charged by the city to an applicant for the costs of investigation is set by appendix IV. The applicant will be notified of the investigation fee prior to the city council’s final action on the license application. The investigation fee is payable upon terms established by the city clerk.

1175.19. Granting of license. After review of the license application, investigation report and public hearing if required, the city council may grant or refuse the application for a new or renewed secondhand goods dealer license. A license will not be effective unless the application fee and bond have been filed with the city clerk.

1175.21. Persons ineligible for license. A secondhand goods dealer license will not be issued to:
	a) a person not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
	b) a person under 18 years of age;
	c) subject to the provisions of law, a person who within five years of the license application date has been convicted of receiving stolen property, sale of stolen property or controlled substance, burglary, robbery, damage or trespass to property, or any law or ordinance; regulating the business of pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer;
	d) a person who within five years of the license application date had a pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer license revoked;
	e) a person whom the city council determines not to be of sufficient good moral character and repute; or
	f) when the city council determines, after investigation and public hearing, if required, that issuance or renewal of the license would adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare.

1175.23. Places ineligible for license. A license will not be issued or renewed under this section for any place or for any business:
	a) if taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or the state of Minnesota on the licensee’s business premises are delinquent and unpaid;
	b) if the premises is located within 300 feet of a school or church;
	c) where operation of a licensed premises would violate zoning ordinances; or
	d) where the applicant’s present license was issued conditioned upon the applicant making specified improvements to the licensed premises or the property of the licensed premises which improvements have not been completed.
	
1175.25. Conditional licenses. The council may grant an application for a new or renewed secondhand goods dealer license conditioned upon the applicant making reasonable improvements to the proposed business premises or the property upon which the business premises is situated. The council, in granting a conditional license, will specify when the modifications must be completed. Failure to comply with the conditions of the license is grounds for the city council to refuse to renew the license.

1175.27. License limitations. A license will be issued to the applicant only and only for the business premises as described in the application. The license is effective only for the premises specified in the approved license application.

1175.29. Term; expiration; pro rata fee. The license is issued for a period of one year beginning on January 1 except that if the application is made during the license year a license may be issued for the remainder of the licensed year for a monthly pro rata fee. An unexpired fraction of a month will be counted as a complete month. The license expires on December 31.

1175.31. Refunds. The city clerk will refund a pro rata share of the license fee for a license to the licensee or the licensee’s estate if:
	a) the business ceases to operate because of destruction or damage;
	b) the licensee dies;
	c) the business ceases to be lawful for a reason other than a license revocation; or
	d) the licensee ceases to carry on the licensed business under the license.

1175.33. Death of licensee. In the case of the death of a licensee the personal representative of the licensee may continue operation of the business for not more than 90 days after the licensee’s death.

1175.35. Records.
	a) Requirements for preparation of reports by licensed secondhand goods dealers. A licensed secondhand goods dealer, at the time of receipt of an item, must immediately record, in ink or other indelible medium in a book or word processing unit, the following information:
		1) an accurate description of the item including, but not limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number, brand name or other identifying mark on such item;
		2) the purchase price;
		3) date, time and place of receipt;
		4) name, address and date of birth of the person from whom the item was received;
		5) the identification number from any of the following forms of identification of the seller:
			i) valid picture driver’s license;
			ii) picture identification;
			iii) medicard.
	b) Retention and inspection of records. The records as well as the goods received must be open for inspection by the police department at reasonable times. Records required by this subsection must be stored and maintained by the licensee for a period of at least three years.

1175.37. Daily reports.
	a) Requirements for daily reports to police by secondhand goods dealers. For the following items, regardless of resale price, a secondhand goods dealer must make out, on forms approved by the police department, and send daily by mail to the police department a legible description of the goods received during the preceding day, together with the time received and a description of the person from whom the goods were received:
		1) items with a serial number identification, or “operation identification” or similar program symbol;
		2) cameras;
		3) electronic audio or video equipment;
		4) precious jewelry or gems, and precious metals;
		5) artist-signed or artist-attributed works of art;
		6) guns and firearms; and
		7) items not included in the above, except furniture and kitchen or laundry appliances, which the secondhand goods dealer intends to sell for more than $200.

1175.39. Stolen goods. A licensed secondhand goods dealer must report to the police any article received, or sought to be received, if the licensee has reason to believe that the article was stolen or lost.

1175.41. Holding goods. An item received by a secondhand goods dealer for which a report to the police is required, may not be sold or otherwise transferred for a period of 30 days after the date of such report to the police.

1175.43. Receipt. A licensed secondhand goods dealer must provide a receipt to the seller or consignor of any items which includes:
	a) the address and phone number of the business;
	b) the date;
	c) a description of the item purchased; and
	d) the purchaser’s signature.

1175.45. Police orders. If a city police officer notifies a dealer not to sell an item, the item may not be sold or removed from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the police.

1175.47. Weapons. A licensed secondhand goods dealer may not receive as a pledge or otherwise accept for consignment or sale any revolver, pistol, sawed-off shotgun, automatic rifle, blackjack, switchblade knife, or other similar weapons or firearms.

1175.49. Prohibited acts. 
	Subdivision 1. Minors. A person under the age of 18 (“minor”) may not sell or consign, or attempt to sell or consign, goods with a secondhand goods dealer. A secondhand goods dealer may not receive goods from a minor.
	Subd. 2. Others. A secondhand goods dealer may not receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an intoxicated person.
	Subd. 3. Identification. A secondhand goods dealer may not receive goods, unless the seller presents identification in the form of a valid driver’s license or identification card issued by the State of Minnesota, another State or a province of Canada.
	
1175.51. License denial; suspension or revocation; penalties. 
	Subdivision 1. License denial; suspension or revocation. A license under this section may be denied, suspended or revoked by the council, after a public hearing where the licensee is granted the opportunity to be heard, for one or more of the following reasons: (Amended Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 5)
		a) the operating of the business is in conflict with any provision of this code;
		b) the operation of the business is in conflict with any health, building, building maintenance, zoning, or any other provision of this code or law;
		c) the licensee or the business premises fails to conform with the standards for license application contained in this section;
		d) the licensee has failed to comply with one or more provisions of this section or any statute, rule or ordinance pertaining to the businesses of pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer;
		e) fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing a license;
		f) fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of the applicant’s business;
		g) subject to the provisions of law, a violation within the preceding five years of any state or federal law relating to theft, receiving stolen property, burglary, robbery, forgery, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance or stolen good, or operation of a business.
	Subd. 2. Fee. The fee charged by the city to an applicant for the costs of investigation is set by appendix IV. The applicant will be notified of the investigation fee prior to the city council’s final action on the license application. The investigation fee is payable upon terms established by the city clerk. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 5)
	Subd. 3 Penalties. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 5)
		a) Misdemeanors. A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided by law.
		b) Administrative civil penalties; licensee. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee is found to have violated this section, the city council may impose an administrative penalty as follows:
			1) First violation: a civil fine in the amount of $500 and license suspension for a period of ten days.
			2) Second violation within 24 months after the first violation: a civil fine in the amount of $750 and suspension of license for a period of 20 days.
			3) Third violation within 36 months after the second violation: a civil fine in the amount of $1,000 and suspension of license for a period of 30 days.
			4) Fourth violation within 36 months after the third violation: revocation of license.
	Subd. 4. Presumptions regarding administrative penalties. The administrative penalties described in subdivision 3 of this section are the presumed sanctions for the violations indicated. In the event of any license suspension imposed under subdivision 3, the city council may select which days a suspension will be served. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision 3, a license may be revoked for any violation of this section when in the judgment of the council it is appropriate to do so. The city council may impose lesser penalties under subdivision 3 when in the judgment of the council it is appropriate to do so. The city council may by resolution revise the amount of the above civil penalties stated in subdivision 3 above, in Appendix IV. Other mandatory requirements may be made of the establishment, including but not limited to, meetings with the Police Department staff to present a plan of action to assure that the problem will not continue, mandatory education sessions with Crime Prevention staff, or other actions that the City Council deems appropriate. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 5)

1175.53. Deleted, Ord. No. 2012-06, Sec.1)

1175.55. Inspections. A peace officer or any properly designated employee of the city or the state of Minnesota may enter, inspect and search business premises licensed under this section, during business hours, without a warrant.

1175.57. County license. Secondhand goods dealers dealing in precious metals and gems must be licensed by Hennepin County.
