Section 1165 - Tree trimming
1165.01. Definitions. For purposes of this section the term “tree trimming” means and includes the trimming of trees and the removal of trees and tree stumps on the property of another for hire.

1165.03. General provisions. It is unlawful to engage in the business of tree trimming in the city without first being licensed to do so pursuant to this section.

1165.05. Application; qualifications; fees. The application for a tree trimming license must be presented to the city clerk on forms provided by the city. The application must contain the following information:
	a) The name, address and business name of applicant;
	b) A list of the names and addresses of at least six persons for whom the applicant has performed tree trimming services within the 12 month period preceding the date of the application;
	c) A summary statement of applicant’s training, experience or special qualifications in the field of tree trimming;
	d) The name of any city or other governmental licensing authority which has issued or refused to issue a tree trimming license to the applicant or which has revoked or suspended such a license issued to the applicant.
		The application must be accompanied by the fees required, bond and insurance certificate required by this section.

1165.07. Bond. An applicant for a license under this section must provide a surety bond in the amount of $2,500 conditioned so that the licensed activity will be conducted in accordance with applicable state laws and city ordinances and that the licensee will save the city harmless from any liability, damage or expense which may be incurred by the city by reason of performance of such activity.

1165.09. Insurance. An applicant must file with the city clerk a certificate of insurance showing that the applicant has purchased public liability and workmen’s compensation insurance which will remain in effect for the term of the license, and that the insurance will not be cancelled without ten days notice to the city. The policy or policies of public liability insurance must provide public liability coverage to the applicant in the combined aggregate amount for any number of occurrences of death, bodily injury or property damage of $300,000, and must name the city as an additional insured party.

1165.11. Issuance of license. Upon submission of the application and the required insurance, bond, and fees, the manager may, if in the manager’s judgment all conditions exist for the issuance of a license, issue a temporary license subject to final approval by the council. The council may require the applicant to appear before it prior to final approval of a license.

1165.13. Conditions of license. The license may be revoked or suspended in accordance with the provisions of appendix IV. The license terminates upon notice of cancellation of the insurance required by subsection 1165.09.

1165.15. Relation to other code provisions. 
	Subdivision 1. General. Activities licensed by this section must be conducted in accordance with all applicable provisions of this code.
	Subd. 2. Excavation permit. A license is not required for the removal of trees conducted pursuant to an excavation permit issued under section 415 of this code.
	Subd. 3. Work in public ways. When conducting licensed activities in a public right-of-way the licensee must provide and maintain appropriate warning lights and barricades of the nature and quantity directed by the city engineer.
	Subd. 4. Shade tree program. Persons licensed under this section must familiarize themselves with all aspects of the city’s shade tree control program. Tree trimming or removal activities involving the treatment of diseased shade trees may not be conducted other than in conformance with section 2020 of this code.

1165.17. Fee. The fee for a license under this section is set by appendix IV.
