Section 1180 - Amusement centers
1180.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. “Machine” means, but is not limited to, a mechanical amusement device of any of the following types:
		a) A machine or electronic contrivance, including “pinball” machines, mechanical miniature pool tables, bowling machines, shuffle boards, electric rifle or gun ranges, miniature mechanical and electronic devices and games or amusements patterned after baseball, basketball, hockey and similar games and like devices, machines or games which may be played solely for amusement and not as a gambling device and which devices or games are played by the insertion of a coin or coins or at a fee fixed and charged by the establishment in which such devices or machines are located, and which contain no automatic payoff devices for the return of money, coins, merchandise, checks, tokens or any other thing or item of value; provided, however, that such machine may be equipped to permit a free play or game: the term does not include coin-operated music machines.
		b) Amusement devices designed for and used exclusively as rides by children, such as, but not limited to, kiddie cars, miniature airplane rides, mechanical horses, and other miniature mechanical devices, not operated as a part of or in connection with any carnival, circus, show, or other entertainment or exhibition.
	Subd. 3. “Amusement center” means a business at one location devoted primarily to the operation of mechanical amusement devices consisting in the operation of ten or more machines and open for public use and participation; the term does not include a licensed premises or business which, by law or ordinance, a minor may not enter unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
	
1180.03. Licenses. 
	Subdivision 1. General rules. It is unlawful to keep, operate, maintain or permit to be operated or maintained upon premises within an applicants direct or indirect control an amusement center or any machine therein, without having first procured an amusement center license and a license for each machine under the provisions of this code.
	Subd. 2. Amusement center license. It is unlawful to own, operate or permit operation of an amusement center on premises owned, leased, or operated by an applicant or engage in the business of operating an amusement center unless an annual amusement center license has been obtained.
	Subd. 3. Application. The application for an amusement center license must contain the following information:
		a) Name and address of the applicant, age, date, and place of birth.
		b) Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated, the business conducted at that place, and the zoning classification.
		c) If the interest of the applicant be that of a corporation or other business entity, the names of any persons having a 5% or more interest in said business entity must be listed.
		d) Applications must conform to the provisions of this section, and must also include a statement that the applicant, if requested by the city clerk, will permit a record of his fingerprints to be made by the police department for the purpose of additional investigation to determine whether or not the application should be granted.
	Subd. 4. License fees. The license fee for an amusement center license is set by appendix IV and may be pro-rated for a partial year. The license fees are in lieu of all other fees for amusement devices or machines under this code.
	Subd. 5. Council approval. The application for an amusement center license must be presented to the city council for consideration, and if approved, the city clerk must issue the license to the applicant.
	
1180.05. Insurance. If the machines to be operated in the amusement center are of the type described in subsection 1, subdivision 2, clause b), the applicant must also submit with his application a policy of liability insurance applicable to death or injury caused by the operation of the licensed machine, in the minimum amounts of $100,000 for injury to or death of any person or $300,000 for one accident.

1180.07. Inspection. 
	Subdivision 1. Police review. Application for an amusement center license must be made in duplicate, and one copy must be referred to the chief of police who must investigate the location wherein it is proposed to operate an amusement center, ascertain if the applicant is a person of good moral character, and may recommend approval or disapproval of the application.
	Subd. 2. Duty of police department. Each amusement center licensed under this section must be inspected by the police department.
	
1180.09. Display of license. The license must be posted permanently and conspicuously at the location of the amusement center.

1180.11. Amusement centers restrictions. 
	Subdivision 1. Nuisance. An amusement center and a coin-operated musical or other musical device therein may not be operated so as to constitute a public nuisance.
	Subd. 2. Order. It is the responsibility of the licensee to maintain order on the licensed premises at all times.
	Subd. 3. Fire hazards. It is the responsibility of the licensee to see that the licensed premises does not become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons therein. The fire marshal must designate and post the maximum number of persons to be permitted on the licensed premises.
	Subd. 4. Supervision. The licensee must provide a full-time attendant of 21 years of age or over upon the licensed premises during business hours.
	Subd. 5. Liquor and beer. It is unlawful for a person operating an amusement center to sell, offer for sale, or knowingly permit to be sold or offered for sale, or to be dispensed or consumed or knowingly brought on the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs, or to knowingly allow any illegal activity upon the licensed premises.
	Subd. 6. Posting. An amusement center must have affixed on its premises in plain view a decalcomania evidencing the issuance of its license, and each machine on the licensed premises must have affixed to it a plate or sticker evidencing its being licensed under this section.
	Subd. 7. Transferability. The license required by this section is a personal privilege and does not constitute property. It is not transferable except as provided in this section.
	Subd. 8. Hours. There are no restrictions on the hours of operation of amusement centers.
	Subd. 9. Restrictions on conditional use. The restrictions contained in this section may be amended and additional conditions or restrictions may be imposed as a part of a conditional use permit issued pursuant to the zoning code.
	Subd. 10. Exits; entrances. The premises in which an amusement center is located must have adequate entrances and exits at the front and rear of the premises but may have no entrances to or exits from adjoining buildings, uses or premises.
	Subd. 11. Smoking. Smoking of tobacco or any other product in an amusement center is prohibited. The licensee is responsible to insure that this restriction is conformed to. Tobacco products may not be sold in an amusement center.
	Subd. 12. Lighting. The interior of an amusement center must be so illuminated as to insure proper and complete observation of patrons at all times. The building inspector must recommend standards for lighting levels to carry out the intent of this subdivision.
	Subd. 13. Food and beverage sales. Food and beverages may be sold in an amusement center subject to the provisions of section 610. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-8, Sec. 1)
	
1180.13. Penalties. A violation of this section is a misdemeanor. The licensee under this section, whether or not in direct control of an amusement center or the premises on which the machines are located, may be charged under this section for a violation thereof by virtue of the responsibility under this section and by virtue of the indirect control of the machines and the premises.
