Section 1110 -Motor vehicle dealers
1110.01. State licensing law adopted by reference. Minnesota Statutes, chapter 168 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if fully set forth herein. A violation of the provisions of the statutes adopted by reference herein is a violation of this code.

1110.03. Not to include auto wrecking. A dealer in motor vehicles licensed pursuant to this section is not authorized by the license to engage in the business of wrecking or dismantling motor vehicles. The wrecking and dismantling of motor vehicles, the keeping or storing for sale or selling of any used parts of motor vehicles, or the use of the premises and place of business of any licensed dealer in motor vehicles for the wrecking, dismantling, or storing of parts of motor vehicles is hereby prohibited unless the dealer has complied with section 1115 of this code relating to auto junk yards.

1110.05. State license required. A person may not engage in the business of:
	a) new motor vehicle dealer,
	b) used motor vehicle dealer,
	c) motor vehicle broker,
	d) motor vehicle wholesaler, or
	e) motor vehicle auctioneer,
		as those terms are defined by state law, without a current state license therefor. Every person holding such a license must file a copy of the current state certificate of license with the city clerk who must maintain a register of such licenses. Failure of a licensee to supply the city clerk with a copy of a current state license is a violation of the code.

1110.07. Off street parking. It is unlawful to park or leave on any public street or alley, any motor vehicle which the licensee may have for sale as a part of a business as a dealer in motor vehicles.

1110.09. Sunday and holidays. A licensee must entirely close the licensed place or places of sale licensed hereunder and may not conduct transactions relating to motor vehicles on or near said premises on any Sunday, legal holiday, or on any other day after 9:00 p.m. or before 8:00 a.m.

1110.11. Vehicle display. Motor vehicles that are being purchased or sold by the licensee hereunder may not be parked on the street or alley adjacent to the licensed premises, but all such vehicles must be located in an orderly arrangement on the licensed premises at all times, leaving driveways of sufficient width between the vehicles so that any vehicle can be driven or removed from the premises without the necessity of removing or moving any other vehicle located thereon.

1110.13. Sanitation of premises. The grounds of licensed premises must be kept in a clean and neat condition at all times and free of refuse, parts of vehicles, papers, weeds, etc. A licensee may not engage in or permit the unnecessary blowing of horns, flashing of vehicle lights, or racing of motors to the disturbance of persons occupying adjacent properties.

1110.15. Lighting. Floodlights may not be used on licensed premises but street lights of a reflector type may be used.

1110.17. Surface of lot. The parking and service drive areas of licensed premises must be hardtopped with asphalt or similar material and such surfacing must be kept in the state of good repair at all times.

1110.19. Building code conformance. Tents, temporary shacks or shelters may not be kept on a licensed premises or used thereon. A building located thereon or used for office purposes must meet the requirements of the building and plumbing ordinances of this code and must conform to the setback lines of the area in which it is located. The buildings must be kept well painted and in a state of good repair.
