Section 1190 - Adult Establishments
(Added, Ord. No. 1996-2)
1190.01 Findings and Purpose. Studies conducted by the Minnesota Attorney General, the American Planning Association, and cities such as St. Paul, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Hopkins, Minnesota; Ramsey, Minnesota; Rochester, Minnesota; Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles, California; and Seattle, Washington have studied the impacts that adult establishments have in those communities. These studies have concluded that adult establishments have adverse impacts on the surrounding neighborhoods. These impacts include increased crime rates, lower property values, increased transiency, neighborhood blight, and potential health risks. Based on these studies and findings, the city council concludes:
	a) Adult establishments have adverse secondary impacts of the types set forth above.
	b) The adverse impacts caused by adult establishments tend to diminish if adult establishments are governed by geographic, licensing, and health requirements.
	c) It is not the intent of the city council to prohibit adult establishments from having a reasonable opportunity to locate in the city.
	d) Minnesota Statutes, section 462.357, allows the city to adopt regulations to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
	e) The public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be promoted by the city adopting regulations governing adult establishments.

1190.03 Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 1. “Adult Establishment” means:
		a) any business that is conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults and that excludes minors from patronage, either by operation of law or by the owners of the business, except any business licensed under chapter XII of this code;
		b) any business that 
			(i) derives 25% or more of its gross receipts during any calendar month from, or 
			(ii) devotes 25% or more of its floor area (not including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business not open to the public) to, items, merchandise, devices or other materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas; or
		c) any business that engages in any adult use as defined in subdivision 2 of this section.
	Subd. 2. Adult Use. An adult use is any of the following activities or businesses:
		a) “Adult Body Painting Studio” means an establishment or business that provides the service of applying paint, ink, or other substance, whether transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is nude.
		b) “Adult Bookstore” means an establishment or business used for the barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, or motion picture film if: 
			(1) the business is not open to the public generally but only to one or more classes of the public, excluding any minor by reason of age; 
			(2) 25% or more of the business’ gross receipts during any calendar month are derived from items, merchandise, or other materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas; or 
			(3) 25% or more of the floor area of the business (not including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business not open to the public) is devoted to items, merchandise, or other materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		c) “Adult Cabaret” means a business or establishment that provides dancing or other live enter-tainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on: (1) the depiction of Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas; or (2) the presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
		d) “Adult Companionship Establishment” means a business or establishment that excludes minors by reason of age, and that provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		e) “Adult Conversation/Rap Parlor” means a business or establishment that excludes minors by reason of age, and that provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		f) “Adult Health/Sport Club” means a health/sport club that excludes minors by reason of age, and that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		g) “Adult Hotel or Motel” means a hotel or motel that excludes minors by reason of age, and that presents material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, de-scribing, or relating to Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		h) “Adult Massage Parlor/Health Club” means a massage parlor or health club that excludes minors by reason of age, and that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		(i) “Adult Mini-Motion Picture Theater” means a business or establishment with a capacity of less than 50 persons that presents material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		j) “Adult Modeling Studio” means a business or establishment that provides figure models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification, engage in Specified Sexual Activities or display Specified Anatomical Areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
		k) “Adult Motion Picture Arcade” means any place to which the public is permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		l) “Adult Motion Picture Theater” means a motion picture theater with a capacity of 50 or more persons that as a prevailing practice excludes minors by reason of age or that as a prevailing practice presents material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas for observation by patrons.
		m) “Adult Novelty Business” means an establishment or business that (i) derives 25% or more of its gross receipts during any calendar month from, or (ii) devotes 25% or more of its floor area (not including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business not open to the public) to, items or merchandise depicting Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas or devices that either stimulate human genitals or are designed for sexual stimulation.
		n) “Adult Sauna” means a sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		(o) “Adult Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility” means a building or portion of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the building or portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
	Subd. 3. Nude or Specified Anatomical Areas.
		a) Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, anuses, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
		b) Human male genitals in a discernably turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
	Subd. 4. Specified Sexual Activities.
		a) Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship; anilingus; buggery; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio; necrophilia; pederasty; pedophilia; piquerism; sapphism; or zooerastia;
		b) Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or tumescence;
		c) Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
		d) Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, or female breasts;
		e) Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other physical restraint of any person;
		f) Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented contact with an animal by a human being; or
		g) Human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal irrigation.
		
1190.05. Location. An Adult Establishment may not be located within 250 feet of: any residentially-zoned property boundary; or any church site, school site, day care facility, park, or business licensed under chapter XII of this code. An Adult Establishment may not be located within 500 feet of another Adult Establishment. For purposes of this section, this distance is a horizontal measurement from the main public entrance of the Adult Establishment to: the nearest point of a residentially-zoned property boundary; the property line of a church site, school site, day care facility, park, or business licensed under chapter XII of this code; and the main public entrance of another Adult Establishment.

1190.07 Hours of Operation. An Adult Establishment may not be open to the public between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.

1190.09. Additional Conditions for Adult Cabarets. The following additional conditions apply to Adult Cabarets:
	a) An owner, operator, or manager of an adult cabaret may not allow any dancer or other live entertainer to display specified anatomical areas or to display or perform Specified Sexual Activities on the premises of the Adult Cabaret;
	b) A dancer, live entertainer, performer, patron, or any other person may not display Specified Anatomical Areas in an Adult Cabaret;
	c) The owner, operator, or manager of an adult cabaret must provide the following information to the city concerning any person who dances or performs live entertainment at the adult cabaret: The person’s name, home address, home telephone number, date of birth, and any aliases;
	d) A dancer, live entertainer, or performer may not be under 18 years old;
	e) Dancing or live entertainment must occur on a platform intended for that purpose and that is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor;
	f) A dancer or performer may not perform a dance or live entertainment closer than ten feet from any patron;
	g) A dancer or performer may not fondle or caress any patron and no patron may fondle or caress any dancer or performer;
	h) A patron may not pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer; and
	i) A dancer or performer may not solicit or accept any pay or gratuity from any patron.
	
1190.11 License Required. 
	Subdivision 1. A person may not own or operate an Adult Establishment without having first secured a license as provided for in this subsection. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, the procedures set forth in this subsection establish the exclusive method for obtaining an adult establishment license.
	Subd. 2. Application: The application for an Adult Establishment license must be submitted on a form provided by the city and must include:
		a) If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone number, and birth date of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the name, residence, phone number, and birth date of each general and limited partner. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone numbers, and birth dates of all persons holding more than five percent of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation;
		b) The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the operator and manager of the adult establishment, if different from the owner’s;
		c) The address and legal description of the premises where the adult establishment is to be located;
		d) A statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony convictions relating to sex offenses, obscenity, or the operation of an Adult Establishment or adult business by the applicant, operator, or manager, and whether or not the applicant, operator or manager has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of business in another community. In the case of a corporation, a statement detailing any felony convictions by the owners of more than five percent of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation, and whether or not those owners have ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of business in another community;
		e) The activities and types of business to be conducted;
		f) The hours of operation;
		g) The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
		h) A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations and activities.
	Subd. 3. License Fee:
		a) The annual license fee is set by appendix IV.
		b) An application for a license must be submitted to the city clerk and accompanied by payment of the required license fee. Upon rejection of an application for a license, the city will refund the license fee.
		c) Licenses will expire on December 31 in each year. Each license will be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rated fee. In computing a pro rated fee, any unexpired fraction of a month will be counted as one month.
		d) No part of the fee paid by any license will be refunded, except that a pro rata portion of the fee will be refunded in the following instances upon application to the city council within 30 days from the happening of one of the following events, provided that the event occurs more than 30 days before the expiration of the license:
			i) Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other catastrophe;
			ii) The licensee’s illness, if such illness renders the licensee unable to continue operating the licensed Adult Establishment;
			iii) The licensee’s death; or
			iv) A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed business to continue.
		e) An application must contain a provision in bold print indicating that withholding information or providing false or misleading information will be grounds for denial or revocation of a license. Changes in the information provided on the application or provided during the investigation must be brought to the attention of the city council by the applicant or licensee. If such a change takes place during the investigation, it must be reported to the police chief or the city clerk in writing and they will report it to the city council. A failure by an applicant or licensee to report such a change may result in a denial or revocation of a license.
	Subd. 4. Fees. The investigative fee for an Adult Establishment license is established by appendix IV.
	Subd. 5. Granting of license.
		a) The chief of police will conduct and complete a CCH Investigation as authorized by section 311 of the city code within 30 days after the city clerk receives a complete application and all license and investigative fees. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-11, Sec. 7)
		b) If the application is for a renewal, the applicant will be allowed to continue business until the city council has determined whether to renew or refuse to renew a license.
		c) If, after the CCH Investigation, it appears that the applicant and the place proposed for the business are eligible for a license, then the license will be issued by the city council within 30 days after the CCH Investigation is completed. If the city council fails to act within 30 days after the CCH Investigation is completed, the application will be deemed approved. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-11, Sec. 7)
		d) A license will be issued to the applicant only and is not transferable to another holder. Each license will be issued only for the premises described in the application. A license may not be transferred to another premise without the approval of the city council. If the licensee is a partnership or a corporation, a change in the identity of any partner or holder of more than five percent of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation will be deemed a transfer of the license. Adult Establishments existing at the time of the adoption of this subsection must obtain an annual license.
	Subd. 6. Persons Ineligible for License. A license will not be granted to or held by a person who:
		a) Is under 21 years of age;
		b) Who is overdue or whose spouse is overdue in payments to the city, county, or state of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against them or imposed upon them;
		c) Who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor or felony or of violating any law of this state or local ordinance relating to sex offenses, obscenity offenses, or Adult Establishments;
		d) Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is issued;
		e) Who is residing with a person who has been denied a license by the city or any other Minnesota municipal corporation to operate an Adult Establishment, or residing with a person whose license to operate an Adult Establishment has been suspended or revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months; or
		f) Who has not paid the license and investigative fees required by this subsection.
	Subd. 7. Places Ineligible for License.
		a) A license will not be granted for any Adult Establishment on premises where the applicant or any of its officers, agents or employees has been convicted of a violation of this subsection, or where a license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one (1) year has elapsed after the conviction or revocation.
		b) A license will not be granted for any Adult Establishment that is not in full compliance with the city code and all provisions of state and federal law.
		c) A license will not be granted for any premises that are licensed under chapter XII of this code.
	Subd. 8. Conditions of License.
		a) A license is subject to the provisions of this subsection, and of any applicable sections of the city code and all provisions of state and federal law.
		b) Licensed premises must have the license posted in a conspicuous place at all times.
		c) A minor may not be permitted on the licensed premises.
		d) Any designated inspection officer of the city has the right to enter, inspect, and search the premises of a licensee during business hours.
		e) The licensee is responsible for the conduct of the licensed place of business and must maintain conditions of order.
		f) Items or Materials depicting Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas may not be offered, sold, transferred, conveyed, given or bartered to a minor, or displayed in a fashion that allows them to be viewed by a minor, whether or not the minor is on the licensed premises.
		g) The licensee must keep itemized written records of all transactions involving the sale or rental of all items or merchandise for at least one year after the transaction. At a minimum, those records must describe the date of the transaction, a description of the transaction, the purchase price or rental price, and a detailed description of the item or merchandise that is being purchased or rented. These written records must be provided to the City upon request.
		h) The licensee must cover or otherwise arrange all windows, doors, and apertures to prevent any person outside the licensed premises from viewing any items or merchandise inside the premises depicting Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas.
	Subd. 9 Penalty.
		a) A violation of this section is a basis for the suspension or revocation of a license granted hereunder. In the event that the city council proposes to revoke or suspend the license, the licensee must be notified in writing of the basis for such proposed revocation or suspension. The council will hold a hearing for the purpose of determining whether to revoke or suspend the license. The hearing must be within 30 days of the date of the notice.
		b) The city council must determine whether to suspend or revoke a license within 30 days after the close of the hearing or within 60 days of the date of the notice, whichever is sooner. the council must notify the licensee of its decision within that period.
	Subd. 10. Right of Appeal.
		a) If the council determines to suspend, or revoke a license, the suspension or revocation is not effective until 15 days after notification of the decision to the licensee. If, within that 15 days, the licensee files and serves an action in state or federal court challenging the council’s action, then the suspension or revocation is stayed until the conclusion of such action.
		b) If the city council determines not to renew a license, the licensee may continue its business for 15 days after receiving notice of such non-renewal. If the licensee files and serves an action in state or federal court within that 15 days for the purpose of determining whether the City acted properly, the licensee may continue in business until the conclusion of the action.
		c) If the city council does not grant a license to an applicant, then the applicant may commence an action in state or federal court within 15 days for the purpose of determining whether the City acted properly. The applicant may not commence doing business unless the action is concluded in its favor.
