Section 1160 - Peddlers, solicitors and
transient merchants
(Repealed, Ord. 2007-05)
(Added, Ord. 2007-05)
1160.01. Definitions. For purposes of this section, the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them. 
	Subdivision 1. “Person” means any person, individual, co-partnership, limited liability company and corporation, both as principal and agent, who engage in, do, or transact any temporary and transient business in the state or city regulated by this section.
	Subd. 2. “Peddler” means a person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to business, street to street, or any other type of place to place for the purpose of offering for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale the goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property that the person is carrying or transporting; the term does not include vendors of milk, bakery products or groceries who distribute their products to regular customers on established routes. The term Peddler shall mean the same as the term “hawker”.
	Subd. 3. “Solicitor” means a person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to business, street to street, or any other type of place to place for the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for the sale of goods, wares, or merchandise including magazines, books, periodicals, other personal property or services of which they may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of this provisions if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or attempt to obt6ain orders as discussed above. The term solicitor shall mean the same as the term “canvasser”.
	Subd. 4. “Transient merchant” means a person, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee who engages in a temporary business out of a vehicle, trailer, box car, tent, other portable shelter, store front, or from a parking lot for the purpose of displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than four consecutive days as part of four sale events each year.
	
1160.03. License required. It is unlawful to engage in the business of peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant in the city without first obtaining a license therefore as provided by this section, unless exempt from such license pursuant to the requirements of subsection 1160.09. In addition, no person shall conduct business as a transient merchant within the city limits without first having obtained the appropriate license from Hennepin County as required by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 329, as amended.

1160.05. Application. Applications for a city license under this section must be filed with the city clerk on a sworn application in writing on a form provided by the city clerk. The application must contain the following information:
	a) Applicant’s full legal name and other names under which the applicant conducts business or to which the applicant officially answers;
	b) Physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color, height, weight, distinguishing marks or features);
	c) Complete permanent home and local address of the applicant; and in the case of transient merchants, the local address from which proposed sales will be made with a letter of signed permission from the property owner;
	d) applicant’s phone number(s);
	e) A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold or services to be provided;
	f) The name, address, and phone number of the employer, principal, or supplier of the applicant, together with credentials establishing the exact relationship;
	g) The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business and the names of its agents conducting business in the city;
	h) The supply source of the goods, or property prepared to be sold, or orders taken for the sale thereof, the location of such goods or products at the time of the application, and the proposed method of delivery;
	i) A recent photograph (approximately two inches by two inches) of the applicant, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
	j) A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any crime or violation of any municipal ordinance other than traffic violations, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefore;
	k) The names of up to three other municipalities where the applicant conducted similar business immediately preceding the date of the current application and the addresses from which such business was conducted within those municipalities;
	l) The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable state-issued identification;
	m) The license plate number(s) and description of the vehicle(s) to be used in conjunction with the licensed business, if applicable;
	n) Proof of county license (applicable to transient merchants only).

1160.07. License fee. At the time of filing the application, the license fee set by subsection 1160.19, must be paid to the city clerk.

11.60.09. Exemptions. 
	Subdivision 1. General exemption. For the purpose of the requirements of this section, the terms “peddler, solicitor, and transient merchant” shall not apply to and shall not include the following:
		a) Sale of personal property at wholesale to dealers in such articles;
		b) The sale of papers or newspaper subscriptions;
		c) Calling upon residents in connection with a regular route service for the sale and delivery of perishable daily necessities of life such as food, bakery products and dairy products. This section shall also not apply to any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery route;
		d) Calling upon residents at the request of said residents;
		e) A sale required by statute or by order of any court or prevent the conduct of a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law;
		f) Sales commonly known as garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales as well as those persons participating in an organized, multi-person bazaar or flea market;
		g) A person issued an invitation by the owner or legal occupant of a residential premise shall be exempt from the definitions of peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants. Exemptions from this section shall not excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
	Subd. 2. Non-profit organizations and free expression exemption. Any organization, society, association, or corporation with a non-profit status approved by the state or federal government desiring to solicit or to have solicited in its name money, donations of money or property, or financial assistance of any kind or desiring to sell or distribute any item of literature of merchandise for which a fee is charged or solicited from persons other than members of such organizations for a charitable, religious, patriotic, or philanthropic purpose by going from house to house, door to door, business to business, street to street, or other type of place to place, or when such activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s state or federal constitutional rights relating to the free exercise of religion or speech, is exempt from the licensing requirements of subsection 1160.03, provided there is a registration filed in writing on a form to be provided by the city clerk which contains the following information:
		a) Organization’s name and specific cause for which exemption is sought;
		b) Names and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization;
		c) Period during which solicitation is to be conducted;
		d) Whether or not any commission, fee, wages, or emoluments are to be expended in connection with such solicitation and the amount thereof; and
		e) Names and addresses of all persons involved in canvassing efforts.
			Persons exercising constitutional rights may lose their exemption from licensing if the person’s exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial activity. Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of subsection 1160.03.
	Subd. 3. Farm produce, horticultural, fireworks exemption. No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to sell or to take or attempt to take orders for any product grown, produced, cultivated, or raised on any farm. For the purposes of this section, “product” shall also mean any horticultural product grown, produced or cultivated and/or sold by any person in this state. Persons exempt under this subdivision shall register with the city as required by subdivision 2 of this subsection. The sale of fireworks shall be regulated by section 1131 of the city code. Not withstanding any provision of the city’s zoning code to the contrary, no conditional use permit or zoning approvals relating to accessory uses shall be required for sales regulated by this subsection.

1160.11. Investigation and issuance. The license application for non-exempt applicants must be referred to the chief of police or delegate who must immediately conduct a CCH Investigation of the applicant as authorized by section 311 of the city code and promptly return the application to the city clerk with a recommendation. The application will then be presented to the city council. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-11, Sec. 3)

1160.13. License requirements. 
	Subdivision 1. The license must contain the signature of the issuing officer and show the name, address, and photograph of the licensee, the date of issuance and expiration, and the license number.
	Subd. 2. Duration. Each license shall be valid only for the period specified therein, and no license may extend beyond the 31st day of December of the year in which it is granted.
	Subd. 3. License non-transferable. No license is transferable from one person to another. Each person involved in any activity regulated by this section shall be separately licensed even though associated with an organization licensed hereunder.
	Subd. 4. Identification. Licensees must wear some type of identification conspicuously showing their name and the organization for which they are working and must carry their city issued license when conducting the business or activity required to be licensed.
	
1160.15. Prohibited activities. 
	Subdivision 1. Loud noises and speaking devices. A person licensed under this section may not shout, cry out, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any sound amplifying device upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon private premises where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
	Subd. 2. Use of streets. A person licensed or regulated under this section does not have an exclusive right to any location in the public streets, nor is such person permitted a permanent stationary location thereon. A person licensed under this section may not operate in a congested area where such operation might impede or inconvenience the public use of streets.
	Subd. 3. Private property. Issuance of a license under this section does not permit the license holder to conduct the licensed activity on private property without the on-going permission of the property owner or the property owner’s authorized agent. If such property is conspicuously posted by the owner or person in control with a sign stating “No trespassing”, or “No solicitors or peddlers” or similar language, the entry thereon by any person subject to the licensing or registration requirements of this section without the permission of the owner or agent shall be a public nuisance punishable as a misdemeanor.
	Subd. 4. Practices prohibited. No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of the following manners:
		a) Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
		b) Creating a direct threat to the health, safety, or welfare of any individual or the general public;
		c) Entering upon any residential premises for the purpose of carrying on the licensee’s or registrant’s trade or business between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. of the following day, unless such person has been expressly invited to do so by the property owner or occupant thereof;
		d) Harassing, intimidating, abusing, or threatening a person, continuing to offer merchandise for sale to any person after being told not to do so by that person, or failing or refusing to leave the premises of the resident occupant after being told to do so by the resident occupant.
		
1160.17. Records. The chief of police must report to the city clerk all convictions for violation of this section. The city clerk must maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of violation therein.

1160.19. Fee. The fees for licenses issued pursuant to this section are set by appendix IV.
