Section 900 - Civil defense
900.01. Act adopted. The Minnesota civil defense act, Minnesota Statutes, chapter 12, insofar as it relates to cities, is adopted by reference as part of this section as fully as if set forth herein.

900.03. Civil defense agency. 
	Subdivision 1. Agency and director. There is created and continued, a civil defense and disaster agency under the supervision and control of a director of civil defense, hereinafter called the director. The director is appointed by the mayor for an indefinite term and may be removed by the mayor at any time. The director serves without salary but is paid actual necessary expenses. The director is responsible for the organization, administration, and operation of the civil defense agency, subject to the direction and control of the mayor.
	Subd. 2. Organization and functions. The civil defense agency is organized into such divisions and bureaus, consistent with state and local defense plans, as the director deems necessary to provide for the efficient performance of local civil defense functions during a civil defense emergency. The agency performs civil defense functions within the city and conducts such functions outside the city as may be required pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, chapter 12, or this section.
	
900.05. Powers and duties of director. 
	Subdivision 1. Intergovernmental arrangements. With the consent of the mayor, the director represents the city on any regional or state organization for civil defense. The director develops proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions within or outside the state for reciprocal civil defense aid and assistance in a civil defense emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and presents such agreements to the council for its action. Such agreements must be consistent with the civil defense plan and during a civil defense emergency, and the civil defense agency and civil defense forces must render assistance in accordance with the provisions of such agreements.
	Subd. 2. Civil defense plan. The director must prepare a comprehensive general plan for the civil defense of the city and present such plan to the city council for its approval. When the council has approved the plan by resolution, all civil defense forces of the city will perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan.
	Subd. 3. Reports. The director must prepare and present to the council periodically a report of activities and recommendations.
