Section 955 - Alarm system
955.01. Purpose and scope. 
	Subdivision 1. This section regulates the use of burglary, safety alarms, and fire alarm systems, establishes users' fees, and establishes a system of administration therefore. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. The purpose of this section is to protect the public safety services of the city from misuse of public safety alarms and to provide for the maximum possible service to public safety alarm users.

955.03. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Alarm user" means a person in control of any building, structure, or facility wherein an alarm system is maintained.
	Subd. 3. "Police communications center" is the city facility used to receive emergency requests for service and general information from the public.
	Subd. 4. "Alarm system" means an alarm installation designed to be used for the prevention or detection of burglary, robbery, or fire on the premises which contain an alarm installation: automobile alarm devices are not an alarm system. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 5. "False alarm" means an alarm signal eliciting a response by police or fire personnel when a situation requiring a response does not, in fact, exist, and which is caused by the activation of the alarm system through mechanical failure, alarm malfunction, improper installation, unknown fire or sprinkler system alarm, pull station activation with no fire, renovation/construction caused, caused by testing or service person(s), failure of a smoke detector or heat detector, dispatch central station, or the inadvertence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system: the term does not include alarms caused by climatic conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms, utility line mishaps, violent conditions of nature or any other conditions which are clearly beyond the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer or owner. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)
	
955.05. User fees. 
	Subdivision 1. User fees are to be paid to the city treasurer within 30 days from the date of notice by the city to the alarm user. (Amended, Ord. No. 2001-01; amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. An alarm user that is required by the city to pay a user fee as the result of a false alarm may make a written appeal of the false alarm charge to the police chief or fire chief within ten days of notice by the city of the false alarm charge. Following review and determination by the police chief or fire chief the decision may be appealed to the city manager who will make a final determination as to whether the user is to be charged with a false alarm. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)
	
955.07. Payment of fees. 
	Subdivision 1. User fees are to be paid to the city treasurer within 30 days from the date of notice by the city to the alarm user. (Amended, Ord. No. 2001-01)
	Subd. 2. Unpaid charges. Delinquent user fees, together with a certification fee in the amount set forth in appendix IV, will be certified by the clerk who must prepare an assessment roll each year providing for assessment of such amounts against the respective properties served. The assessment will include interest on the unpaid user and certification fees at the annual rate set by appendix IV. Assessments will be certified against any property to which alarm calls were directed, regardless of whether the alarm user was the owner, tenant or other person. The assessment roll must be delivered by the clerk to the city council for adoption on or before November 1 of each year. (Amended, Ord. No.2001-01; Ord. 2004-10, Sec. 2)

955.09. Alarm report. If an alarm user has incurred three false alarms within one calendar year, the alarm user must submit a written report to the chief of police or fire chief within ten days after being notified of the third false alarm, describing actions taken or to be taken to discover and eliminate the cause of the false alarms. Failure to submit the written report is a violation of this section. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)

955.11. Administrative rules. The chief of police or fire chief must prepare such rules as are necessary for the implementation of this section. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)

955.13. Confidentiality. 
	Subdivision 1. Information submitted in compliance with this section will be held in confidence and exempt from discovery to the extent permitted by law.
	Subd. 2. Statistics. Subject to requirements of confidentiality, the chief of police or fire chief may develop and maintain statistics for the purpose of ongoing alarm systems evaluation. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)
	
955.15. (Deleted, Ord. No. 2007-13, Sec. 1)

955.17. Enforcement and penalties. Failure or omission to comply with any provisions of this section is a petty misdemeanor.
