Section 940 - Civil disorder
940.01. Policy. Numerous bombings and the detonation of explosives have occurred in the metropolitan area of which the city is a part. Numerous calls and other information have come to the authorities of the city of threatened bombings and explosions in various buildings and parts of the city. Such conditions may pose a threat to the safety and security of the citizens and property owners of the city. It is therefore necessary that the city council take all prudent steps to safeguard its residents and citizens.

940.03. Emergency board. 
	Subdivision 1. Board created. There is hereby created an emergency board composed of the mayor, city manager and chief of police. Upon the occurrence of an emergency which poses a general threat to the public safety, such board must convene immediately at the call of the mayor at a place to be designated by the mayor.
	Subd. 2. Board; powers. The emergency board, by vote of two of its members, may prohibit the sale, exchange or transportation of any commodities deemed to be dangerous, such as: firearms, ammunition, explosives, and intoxicating beverages. Notice of such action must be served upon persons and businesses involved therein by the police department of the city. Such prohibition must terminate within 24 hours unless ratified or extended by the city council as provided in the city charter.
	Subd. 3. Notice. The emergency board must upon convening immediately notify each member of the city council of such meeting and any action taken.
	
940.05. Evacuation. 
	Subdivision 1. Public, private defined. "Public" as used in this section means any commercial, business, or institutional premise. "Private" means residential, private dwellings.
	Subd. 2. Public places. If a notice or other communication or information comes to the police department of the city relating to any threatened explosion of a bomb or other device in or on any public premise within the city, the chief of police may evacuate such public premise and provide appropriate assistance in the evacuation.
	Subd. 3. Private premises. If a notice or communication or information comes to the police department relating to threatened explosions of a bomb or other device in or on any private premise of the city, the chief of police must immediately inform occupants and assist with evacuation if requested.

940.07. Bomb threats. It is unlawful:
	a) As a hoax, to communicate or cause to be communicated the fact that a bomb or any other explosive device has been placed in any building or in any location other than a building.
	b) As a hoax, to threaten to bomb any person, place or building.
	c) To knowingly permit any telephone or other means of communication under one's control to be used for any purposes prohibited by this section.
	d) As a hoax, to place or cause to be placed in any location any article, constructed or placed with intent to give the impression that the article possesses explosive capability.

940.09. (Repealed, Ord. No. 2014 – 02)
