Section 945 - Use of Firearms
945.01. Firearms. 
	Subdivision 1. Permit. It is unlawful to shoot, discharge or explode any firearm, cartridge or shell containing an explosive or air rifle within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a written permit as required by Minnesota Statutes sections 624.71 – 624.719, as amended, and as provided in this section 945. (Amended, Ord. No. 2013-04, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 2. Exceptions. Subdivision 1 does not apply to:
		a) Persons duly authorized to act as law enforcement officers, or members of military forces of the United States or the state of Minnesota in the discharge of their duties.
		b) Persons engaged in target shooting, with inanimate objects as targets, within a building or structure safely enclosed where the sound of the shooting or discharge will not be a nuisance to persons occupying adjacent property.
		c) Persons engaged in target or trap shooting on target or trap shooting ranges licensed as such by the council as provided in subsection 945.05.
		d) Persons acting in self-defense when the use of firearms for that purpose would be lawful under the laws of the state of Minnesota.
		e) For the destruction of diseased, injured or dangerous birds, animals or reptiles by persons specifically authorized to do so by subsection 910.23.
		
945.03. Killing of birds and animals. It is unlawful, with or without a permit, to use any shotgun, rifle or other firearm for hunting, shooting or otherwise capturing or killing any animal or bird, except as authorized by subsection 945.01.

945.05. Licenses for target and trap shooting. The council may license the use of firearms and air rifles for target shooting and trap shooting at any suitable place within the city upon application of the owner or occupant of the premises to be licensed and payment of a license fee established by appendix IV. All such licenses expire on December 31 of the year in which granted. A license may not be granted until the chief of police and the council are satisfied that target shooting or trap shooting at the place to be licensed will not be a hazard to persons, animals or property on or adjacent to the licensed premises. A license may not be granted with respect to a place not a safe distance from a public street nor to any place where the sound of the shooting will be a nuisance to the residents in the vicinity. In granting such a license the council may prescribe the hours during which shooting will be permitted and the caliber of rifles or other firearms which may be used. A license may be terminated by the council at any time after reasonable notice to the licensee and hearing, if the council finds that any provision of the license has been violated or that use of the target or trap shooting range has become hazardous to any person, property, animals or is a nuisance.

945.07. Permits to destroy animals. The manager may grant a permit to any person on application for the use of appropriate firearms or air rifles for destruction of a diseased, dangerous or injured animal, but the permit is not valid for longer than the 24 hours period specified in the permit.

945.09. Civil liability. This section does not authorize the use of any firearm or air rifle in a manner that will endanger any human being or property. A permit or license granted hereunder does not relieve the person acting thereunder from civil liability for any damage resulting from such use of the firearm or air rifle.
