Section 905 - Fire prevention
905.01. Adoption by reference. 
	Subdivision 1. Minnesota State Fire Code adopted. The Minnesota State Fire Code, is hereby adopted by the city of Crystal including all supplements and subsequent amendments. The purpose of this action is for prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire, maintenance of buildings and premises, explosion and other like emergencies. The MSFC incorporates by reference the 2000 Edition of the International Fire Code published by the International Code Congress and as amended by the state of Minnesota, together with appendices B, C, D and F. Not less than one copy of each has been and is now filed with the clerk of the city. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 1)

905.03. Enforcement by fire district. The Minnesota State Fire Code, as adopted herein, shall be administered and enforced by the West Metro Fire-Rescue District. All references to and duties of the bureau of fire prevention, the fire marshal, fire inspectors and required reports shall be governed by the West Metro Fire-Rescue District and not the city. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 2)

905.05. Definitions. The term "municipality" as used in the Minnesota State Fire Code means the city of Crystal. The term “fire district” means the West Metro Fire-Rescue District. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 3)

905.07. Storage of flammable liquids, liquified petroleum and explosives. 
	Subdivision 1. Flammable or combustible liquids in outside above ground tanks. The storage of flammable or combustible liquids in outside above ground tanks is permitted within I-1 and I-2 zoning districts only.
	Subd. 2. Storage of liquified petroleum gases. The storage of liquified petroleum gases is permitted in I-1 and I-2 zoning districts only.
	Subd. 3. Storage of explosives and blasting agents. The storage of explosives and blasting agents is permitted in I-1 and I-2 zoning districts only.
	
905.09. Special use permits. Storage of flammable liquids in outside above-ground tanks, the establishment of a bulk plant for flammable liquids, the bulk storage of liquified petroleum gases, and the storage of explosives and blasting agents is not permitted within the corporate limits of the city, except in an I-1 and I-2 zoning district, after approval of the fire district and the city of Crystal building official. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 4)

905.11. Appeals. Any appeal from an order issued by the state fire marshal or fire district shall be governed by section 108 of the Minnesota State Fire Code. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 5)

905.13. Permits; fees. Permits are governed by the Minnesota State Fire Code. All permits will be issued by the building safety division of the city and must be approved by the fire district. Fees for permits are set by appendix IV of this code. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 6)

905.15. Fire lanes. 
	Subdivision 1. Fire lanes, establishment. The fire marshal is hereby authorized to order the establishment of fire lanes on public or private property as may be necessary in order that the travel of fire equipment may not be interfered with, and that access to fire hydrants or buildings may not be blocked off. When a fire lane has been ordered to be established, it shall be marked by a sign bearing the words “NO PARKING-FIRE LANE” or a similar message. When the fire lane is on public property or a public right-of-way, the sign or signs shall be erected by the city, and when on private property, they shall be erected by the owner at the owner’s expense within 30 days after the owner has been notified of the order. Thereafter, no person shall leave a vehicle unattended or otherwise occupy or obstruct the fire lane. (Amended Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 7)
	Subd. 2. Enforcement of fire lanes. When any motor vehicle occupies or obstructs any duly designated fire lane in a manner inconsistent with its intended use for fire protection purposes, or prevents access to any fire hydrant in the normal and usual manner by fire protection personnel and equipment, the fire marshal or police department personnel may order the impoundment of the vehicle, after first making a reasonable effort in the immediate vicinity to ascertain the identity and location of the owner or other person leaving the vehicle in the fire lane. No vehicle impounded pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be released until a release is obtained from the police department and all towing and storing charges have been paid. (Added, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 7)
	Subd. 3. Temporary use of fire lanes. The fire marshal is hereby authorized to determine and designate on a temporary basis, those fire lanes established under this section and orders pursuant thereto, upon which parking of vehicles shall be permitted when in the fire marshal’s opinion, necessary for public safety or convenience. (Added, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 7)
	
905.17. (Repealed, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 10)

905.19. (Repealed, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec.10)

905.21. (Repealed, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 10)

905.23. (Repealed, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 10)

905.25. Commercial cooking ventilation systems. 
	Subdivision 1. Periodic servicing. Commercial cooking ventilation systems, hoods, filters, grease removal devices, and ducts must be periodically cleaned prior to surfaces becoming heavily contaminated with combustible grease deposits. Commercial cooking ventilation systems, hoods, and ducts must be cleaned at least annually. Cleaning may be required more often depending on grease build-up and is up to the discretion of the code official. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 8)
	Subd. 2. Permits. A person cleaning a commercial cooking ventilation system or its components as referred to in subdivision 1 for the removal of combustible grease, must first obtain a permit from the building department. Permits must be obtained a minimum of three days prior to starting work. Upon completion of cleaning, the fire district must be notified for inspection and approval of work. The permit fee is fixed in appendix IV. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 8)

905.27. Open burning. 
	Subdivision 1. Construction projects. Open burning is allowed for the purpose of thawing frozen ground or for maintaining of interior structure temperature in connection with construction projects. This shall be considered temporary heat and will require a special use permit for code official approval before installation. All installations shall be in accordance with chapter 14, section 1403 of the MSFC. Exception: No permit is required for any temporary heating with a maximum cylinder size of 20 pounds or less. (Added, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 9)
	Subd. 2. Recreational fires. Open burning shall be allowed for the purpose of recreation. (For example, fires for warmth, for the cooking of foodstuffs, or ceremonial purposes.) No permit is required for recreational fires, but they shall adhere to the following regulations at all times.
		a) Recreational fires shall not be used for disposal of yard waste, construction materials, or common household trash. Fuel for recreational fire shall only be that of aged, dry firewood.
		b) All recreational fires must be in an approved outdoor fireplace or pit, which is at grade or below and no more than three feet in diameter. The outside edge shall be ringed with brick, rock, or other non-combustible material to prevent fire spread. Commercially manufactured steel outdoor fire pits and structures may be used provided they are not more than three feet in diameter.
		c) All recreational fires shall be kept a minimum of 15 feet from any structure or combustible materials.
		d) Recreational fires shall not be allowed if winds exceed seven miles per hour.
		e) Recreational fires shall be constantly attended by the property owner or designated adult until fire is completely extinguished. A garden hose or other adequate means of extinguishment shall be available within 15 feet of the fire for emergency purposes.
		f) When prohibited by action of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, recreational fires shall not be permitted.
		g) All recreational fires shall be extinguished no later than 11:00 P.M.
		h) At the discretion of the fire official, any recreational fire not adhering to the above regulations, and or that poses a dangerous condition shall be considered a public nuisance and shall be immediately extinguished. Any person or persons who fail to comply with these conditions shall be in violation of this section. (Added, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 9)
	Subd. 3. Open burning; use of open-flame, liquefied-petroleum gas (LP), or charcoal cooking devices on vertical apartment balconies or patios is hereby prohibited. No person shall kindle, maintain or cause any fire or open flame on any apartment balcony above ground level or ground floor patio immediately adjacent to or within ten feet of any combustible construction. No person shall store any fuel, barbecue torch or other similar heating or lighting chemicals or device in either of the above locations. Exception: One and two-family dwellings. (Added, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 9)
	Subd. 4. Fire control costs. Every resident or nonresident person, firm or corporation shall be liable for all fighting or preventing the spread of, or extinguishing any fire caused by or resulting from their or its acts, negligence or omissions. The fire chief shall keep a record of the cost, including work done by firefighters and other city employees and equipment, and file the same with the clerk. Thereupon, the clerk shall bill the person, firm or corporation liable therefore, as prescribed in chapter 14 of the MSFC. No license of any person, firm or corporation liable for the expenses incurred in fire control as provided above, shall be renewed if the licensee is in default in payment of any bill hereunder. (Added, Ord. No. 2004-3, Sec. 9)
