Section 925 - Inhaling or consumption of chemicals or glue
925.01. It is unlawful to intentionally inhale, breathe, or drink any compound liquor or chemical containing toluol, hexane, trichlorethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, fluorocarbon, methyl ethyl ketone, trichoroathane, isopropahol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone, or any other glue or adhesive substance, hereinafter referred to as "glue", for the purpose of inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational behavior, physical, or in any manner change, distort, or disturb the audio, visual, or mental processes. For the purpose of this section, any such condition so induced must be deemed to be an intoxicated condition; provided, however, that the provisions of this section must not apply to any person who inhales, breathes, or drinks such material or substance pursuant to the direction or prescription of any doctor, physician, surgeon, dentist, or podiatrist authorized to so direct or prescribe.

925.03. General. It is unlawful for the purpose of violating or aiding another to violate any provision of this section, to intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer possession, or receive possession of glue.

925.05. Sales. 
	Subdivision 1. Possession. Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person 17 years of age or under may not possess or buy glue.
	Subd. 2. Transfers. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful to sell or transfer possession of glue to another person 17 years of age or under.
	Subd. 3. Exception; consent. A person may sell or transfer possession of glue to a person 17 years of age or under for model building or other lawful use where the juvenile has in possession and exhibits the written consent of a parent or guardian.
	Subd. 4. Exception; lawful sale. This subsection does not apply where the glue or cement is sold, delivered, or given away simultaneously with and as part of a kit used for the construction of model airplanes, model boats, model automobiles, model trains, or other similar models.
	
925.07. Sales. A person making a sale or transfer of possession of glue to a person 17 years of age or under who exhibits the written consent of a parent or guardian must record the name, address, sex, and age of the person and the name and address of the consenting parent or guardian. Data required by this section must be kept in a permanent type register available for inspection by the police department for a period of at least six months.

925.09. Sale of glue. Retail establishments may not sell glue from a self-service display.

925.11. YMCA. This section does not apply to the distribution of glue or cements by youth organizations such as the YMCA for use by its regularly organized model classes.

925.13. Application. This section does not apply to a person who inhales, breathes, drinks, or otherwise in any manner uses intoxicating liquor as defined by law. This section does not apply to a person who inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise in any manner uses any narcotic, dangerous drug, or other materials or substance or combination thereof, which material or substance or combination thereof is defined by, and the use of which is prohibited or regulated by law.
