Section 1305 - Streets; traffic
1305.01. Emergency street closings. 
	Subdivision 1. Reasons. In an emergency either the manager, chief of police or the fire chief may close off any public street, alley, or area to vehicular or pedestrian traffic, including parked cars and to reroute traffic when necessary to control or prevent a riot, to fight or prevent the spreading of a fire, to control or remove explosives, to repair electrical service, gas, water or sewer main, or to prevent damage to life, limb or property that might result from any traffic or other hazard.
	Subd. 2. Procedure. The engineer or street superintendent, after obtaining the approval of the manager may close off or prohibit vehicular traffic on a public street or alley or portion thereof in order to effect the orderly installation, repair, maintenance, or snow removal of any streets. Prior to closing a street or alley both the fire and police department must be notified.
	Subd. 3. Temporary closing. The chief of police, after obtaining the approval of the manager, may order the temporary closing off or the temporary designation of one way traffic or to reroute any or all vehicular traffic on any public street, alley or area when it appears necessary to control vehicular or pedestrian traffic or crowds resulting from any large public gathering, prior to, during and after a public or private convention, assembly, parade, carnival, circus, political rally or sports events where the use of the public street, park or other public property is necessary or incidental to the holding or convening of any of the foregoing activities.
	Subd. 4. Barrier; warnings. A street or area may be closed to vehicular or pedestrian traffic or to parked cars at any hour by the stationing of a police officer at both ends of said street or area, who may then direct traffic, or during the daylight hours by posting or erecting suitable signs, flags or barriers at both ends of the street or area so designated, stating the restriction imposed and by whose authority the restriction is imposed, or at night by the placing of suitable barriers and warning lights or flasher signals at both ends of the street or areas so designated. Drivers must obey police officers and barriers, flags, signs, lights, or signals so placed.
	Subd. 5. Emergency traffic restrictions. The city manager may make and enforce necessary traffic control restrictions in time of emergency, provided that public notice of such restrictions be published, or broadcast, or posted in at least two public places, and further, that any such restrictions be reviewed by the council at the next regular council meeting, following the establishment of such emergency restrictions, at which time such restrictions may be continued or abandoned by resolution of the council.
	
1305.03. Cutting across public or private property. It is unlawful to disobey the instructions of an official traffic control device within the meaning of this section, unless at the time otherwise directed by a police officer, by driving into or across public or private property so as to obviate the need to comply with the traffic control device.

1305.05. Weight limits; seasonal restrictions. 
	Subdivision 1. Prohibition; weight. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle or a combination of vehicles upon a public street, alley or highway within the city, during the period between March 20 and May 15 where the gross weight on any single axle exceed 8,000 pounds. This limitation does not apply to emergency vehicles of public utilities used incidental to making repairs to its plant or equipment within the city; or to roads or streets paved with concrete.
	Subd. 2. Council action. The council may by resolution prohibit the operation of vehicles upon public streets or alleys in the city. The council may also by resolution impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles to be operated upon streets or alleys, whenever such streets or alleys, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions may be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or their permissible weights reduced. The resolution adopted must designate the particular streets or alleys affected and must set forth the prohibitions or restrictions imposed on the streets or alleys.
	Subd. 3. Posting of signs. Upon the adoption of a prohibition or restriction as provided for in this section, the street superintendent must cause to be posted or erected, signs plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each end of the street or alley or that portion of any street or alley affected thereby. The prohibition or restriction is not effective until after such signs are so posted or erected.
	Subd. 4. Special permits. A person desiring to move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the maximum authorized by this section or otherwise not in conformity with the provisions hereof, may make written application therefor to the council and upon good cause being shown therefor, the council may, in its discretion, issue a permit. The application and permit must specifically describe the vehicle or vehicles and loads to be moved, the public streets over which the same is to travel and the period of time for which the permit is granted. The council must prescribe the conditions to govern the operation of such vehicle or vehicles and may require an undertaking or other security to compensate for any injury to any roadway or road structure. The permit must be carried on the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and be open to inspection by any police officer, official, or employee of the city.
	Subd. 5. Damage to streets. A person driving a vehicle, object or contrivance upon a city street is liable for all damages that the highway or highway structure sustains as a result of any illegal operation, driving, or moving of the vehicle, object or contrivance, or as a result of operation, driving, or moving a vehicle, object, or contrivance in excess of the maximum weight authorized by and pursuant to the issuance of a permit. When the driver is not the owner of the vehicle, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or moving the same with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner and driver are jointly and severally liable for damage. The damage may be recovered in a civil action brought by the city.
	Subd. 6. Police duties. A police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a vehicle and load is unlawful, may require the driver to stop and submit to a weighing of the vehicle, either by means of portable or stationary scales, and may require that the vehicle be driven to the nearest scales, in the event such scales are within five miles. If an officer determines that the weight of any vehicle or the load thereon exceeds the maximum authorized the officer may require the driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed as may be necessary to reduce the gross weight of such vehicle to such limit as permitted under the provisions of this section. Materials so unloaded must be cared for by the owner or driver of the vehicle, at the risk of the owner or driver. A driver of a vehicle who fails or refuses to stop and submit the vehicle and load to a weighing, or who fails or refuses, when directed by an officer upon a weighing of the vehicle, to stop the vehicle and otherwise comply with the provisions of this section, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
	
1305.07. Unreasonable acceleration. It is unlawful to start or accelerate any motor vehicle with an unnecessary exhibition of speed on a public or private way within the city limits. Unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires of the vehicle or both is prima facie evidence of unnecessary exhibition of speed.
