Section 1310 - Parking regulations
1310.01. General rules. 
	Subdivision 1. Parallel to curb. Vehicles must be parked or stopped parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, with the curb-side wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway, and not closer than four feet to another vehicle parked at the curb. 
	Subd. 2. Where no curb. On streets and highways not having a curb a vehicle stopped or parked must be stopped or parked parallel with and to the right of the paved or improved or main travelled part of the street or highway.
	Subd. 3. One-way roadway. On a one-way roadway a vehicle must be parked with the front of the vehicle facing in the same direction on the one-way street as the traffic thereof is permitted to pass.
	Subd. 4. Angle parking. On those streets that have been marked or signed for angle parking, vehicles must be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by the marks or signs.
	Subd. 5. Boulevard defined. For the purposes of this code, the term "boulevard" means the area between the adjacent property line and the portion of a roadway improved for public traffic.
	
1310.03. Parking prohibited. 
	Subdivision 1. Specified places. A vehicle may not be parked, whether attended or unattended, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the places specified in this subsection.
	Subd. 2. On a sidewalk or boulevard.
	Subd. 3. In front of a public or private driveway or alley or within five feet of the intersection of any public or private driveway or alley with any street or highway.
	Subd. 4. Within an intersection.
	Subd. 5. Within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
	Subd. 6. On a crosswalk.
	Subd. 7. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection.
	Subd. 8. Within 30 feet upon the approach of any flashing school signal, stop sign, traffic control signal, or school sign at the side of a roadway.
	Subd. 9. Within a designated or marked bus stop.
	Subd. 10. Within a 50 foot distance of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
	Subd. 11. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the side of a street opposite to the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of the entrance when properly sign-posted.
	Subd. 12. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
	Subd. 13. Upon a bridge or approach or other elevated structure upon a street or highway or within a street or highway tunnel, except as otherwise provided by this code.
	Subd. 14. At a place where there are placed temporary signs prohibiting parking.
	Subd. 15. Parking prohibited; methods. It is unlawful to park a vehicle:
		a) So as to block a fire escape or the exit from any building;
		b) Contrary to an order to proceed by a peace officer directing, controlling, or regulating traffic.
	Subd. 16. Other acts prohibited. It is unlawful to move a vehicle not owned by that person into a prohibited parking area or away from the curb to an unlawful distance.
	
1310.05. Other parking restrictions. 
	Subdivision 1. Cars for sale. It is unlawful to place a vehicle on a highway to display the vehicle for sale or exchange. A vehicle is deemed to be displayed in violation of this subsection when it is found standing upon a street or highway, and bearing a sign indicating that it is for sale or exchange.
	Subd. 2. Disabled vehicles. The provisions of this section relating to stopping, standing and parking do not apply to the driver of a vehicle that is disabled for a reasonable time while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a street or highway in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
	Subd. 3. No parking zones. It is unlawful to stop, stand or park a vehicle, except as otherwise provided in this code or unless directed to do so by a police officer, on a street or highway where the city council has established a no parking zone and the zone is marked by sign or yellow curb.
	Subd. 4. Off street parking. It is unlawful to park a vehicle in an industrial, commercial or multiple or single dwelling area where off-street parking area or truck standing spaces are provided. Vehicles must use a designated area for parking, loading or unloading.
	Subd. 5. City parks. It is unlawful to park a vehicle in a city park other than in a designated parking area.
	Subd. 6. Angle parking. Angle parking is prohibited on public streets or alleys within the city.
	Subd. 7. Snow emergency. After a snowfall of at least 1-1/2 inches in the city, parking is prohibited on public streets and alleys until and after the street or alley has been plowed and the snow removed to the curb line.
	Subd 8. City parking lot. It is unlawful to park a truck in the city parking lot adjoining Becker Park.

1310.07. Parking times. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. A vehicle may not be parked within the city on a public street or alley between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any day. A vehicle, except a governmental vehicle, may not be parked in any city-owned or operated parking lot between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any day. A truck may not be parked on any public street, avenue, alley, or other public way for a continuous period of more than two hours unless actually engaged in loading or unloading in the due course of business. For purposes of this section, the term "truck" means a self-propelled motor vehicle not operated on rails, having capacity of one and one-half tons or more, or any tractor or trailer or combination thereof; and the term “governmental vehicle” means (a) a vehicle owned or controlled by the federal government, the state, or any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof, and (b) a vehicle owned or controlled by an employee of the city or any joint powers organization of which the city is a member. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-11, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 2002-13, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. Parking; temporary permits. During the period from April 1 to November 30 and on legal holidays and the days preceding and following legal holidays, the city manager is authorized to issue temporary permits for the parking of a vehicle on a street between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. when in the manager's judgment special circumstances exist justifying the issuance of the temporary permit and the purposes of this section will not be impaired thereby. The permit is to be issued for a specific motor vehicle at a specific residential dwelling unit and must be prominently displayed in the interior of the vehicle. A temporary permit issued under this subsection is not transferable to another vehicle. One temporary permit may be issued under this subsection without a fee. The fee for the issuance of additional temporary permits under this subsection is set by appendix IV. For purposes of this subdivision, the term "legal holiday" means: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents' Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. (Amended, Ord. No. 95-8, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 2002-13, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. City parking lots; temporary permits. The city manager is authorized to issue temporary permits for the parking of a vehicle in a city owned or operated parking lot between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. when in the manager’s judgment special circumstances exist justifying the issuance of the temporary permit and the purposes of this section will not be impaired thereby. The permit is to be issued for a specific motor vehicle and must be prominently displayed in the interior of the vehicle. A temporary permit issued under this subsection is not transferable to another vehicle. One temporary permit may be issued under this subsection without a fee. The fee for the issuance of additional temporary permits under this subsection is set by Appendix IV. (Added, Ord. No. 99-11, Sec. 2; Ord. No. 2002-13, Sec. 1)

1310.09. Towaway of vehicles. A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be ordered removed from a public street or alley or a city owned or operated parking lot by a police officer or authorized city official. The owner or driver of the vehicle must be notified, if present or readily available, to remove the vehicle, otherwise the vehicle is to be towed away to a garage, service station or other place of safekeeping as soon as possible to facilitate snow removal, street maintenance, the orderly flow of traffic, fire fighting or other lawful purpose. The owner must pay the costs of such towing and storage. Except in an emergency, the removal of a vehicle by or under the direction of the police officer or other city official does not prevent the prosecution of a violation of this section. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-11, Sec. 3)

1310.11. Parking defined. For purposes of this section, the term "park" includes the term "stand" or "standing" and "stop" or "stopping".

1310.13. Parking; handicapped; prohibition. It is unlawful to park, obstruct, or occupy with a motor vehicle a parking space, on public or private property, designated and posted as parking space for handicapped persons pursuant to the state building code unless the vehicle has prominently displayed upon it an insignia or certificate issued by the division of motor vehicles in the state department of public safety pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 169.345.
