Section 1330 – Recreational vehicles and equipment
(Repealed, Ord. 2006-9, Sec. 1)

Section 1330 – Motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment (Added, Ord. 2006-9, Sec. 2)
1330.01. Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to prevent public nuisances by reasonable regulations for use, parking and storage of motor, recreational and commercial vehicles and equipment on public and private property in the city and to protect the resident’s health, safety and general welfare while enhancing the quality of our neighborhoods.

1330.03. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For the purposes of this section, unless the language or context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended, the following words, terms, and phrases shall be given the meanings found therein, and in addition shall include, but not be limited to the meanings of similar words, terms, and phrases found in Minnesota Statutes, chapters 168, 169, and 171, as such may be amended.
	Subd. 2. "Motor vehicle” means a passenger vehicle; truck; recreational vehicle; commercial vehicle; motorcycle; motor scooter; golf cart or other similar self-propelled vehicle. “Motor vehicle” does not mean a, bicycle, tricycle, quadricycle or motorized wheelchair.
	Subd. 3. "Recreational vehicles and equipment (RVEs)" means camper trailers, including those which telescope or fold down; chassis mounted campers; utility trailers; motor homes; tent trailers; slip in campers; converted buses or vans that are motor homes as defined in this section; snowmobiles as defined in section 1335 of this code; snowmobile trailers; boats; boat trailers; all-terrain vehicles; all-terrain vehicle trailers and go-carts.
	Subd. 4. “Passenger vehicle” means an automobile; station wagon; van; sport utility vehicle; minivan; pick-up truck or motorcycle designed and primarily intended for on-street operation. Passenger vehicles do not include commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles, racing cars or stock cars.
	Subd. 5. “Motor home” means a motor vehicle that also provides temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes. Motor homes contain at least four of the following in working condition, two of which must be a), b), or c):
		a) liquid propane gas for cooking;
		b) potable water including sink and faucet;
		c) separate 110-125 volt electrical power;
		d) heating or air conditioning;
		e) electric or propane refrigerator;
		f) toilet self-contained or connected to a plumbing system.
	Subd. 6. "Residential use districts" means the following districts established by the zoning code of the city of Crystal: R-1, R-2 and R-3.
	Subd. 7. “Front lot line”: The boundary of a lot that abuts a public street. On a corner lot, it shall be the street-abutting lot line with the shortest dimension. On a through lot, all street-abutting lot lines shall be deemed front lot lines. On a through corner lot, the street-abutting lot lines on opposite sides of the lot shall be deemed front lot lines.
	Subd. 8. "Side lot line (side street)": Any street-abutting lot line that is not a front or rear lot line.
	Subd. 9. "Side lot line (interior)": Any lot line that is not a front, rear or side street lot line.
	Subd. 10. "Rear lot line": The lot line not intersecting a front lot line that is most distant from and most closely parallel to the front lot line.
	Subd. 11. "Front yard": The horizontal distance between the principal structure and the front lot line, extending across the full width of the lot.
	Subd. 12. "Side yard (side street)": The horizontal distance between the principal structure and the side street lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
	Subd. 13. "Side yard (interior)": The horizontal distance between the principal structure and the side lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
	Subd. 14. "Rear yard": The horizontal distance between the principal structure and the rear lot line, extending across the full width of the lot.
	
1330.05. Recreational vehicles and equipment not permitted to be operated on public streets, roads or other public property within the city of Crystal include, but are not limited to the following: boats with motors, canoes, kayaks, rowboats, all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, jet skis and go-carts.

1330.07. It is unlawful to operate a motor, recreational or commercial vehicle on private residential property of another without having in one's possession at the time of driving or operation of the vehicle the written permission of the owner, or on publicly owned land including school, park property, playground, and recreational area, except where permitted in accordance with this section.

1330.09. When the driving of a motor, recreational or commercial vehicle is permitted, the vehicle may not be operated:
	a) So as to create, permit, or maintain a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable number of members of the public;
	b) In a manner which interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous the proper use of the premises involved;
	c) While under the influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotics or any habit forming drugs;
	d) At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the surrounding conditions, or in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger person or property;
	e) To intentionally chase, run over, disturb or kill any wild or domestic animal.

1330.11. Exception. This section does not apply to emergency vehicles or vehicles used by governmental bodies on governmental business.

1330.13. Permitted areas. The city council may from time to time by resolution define the areas of public land owned and maintained by the city for the use of recreational vehicles under the conditions herein provided or may add thereto such conditions as may be required. It is unlawful for any person to drive, operate or use a motor, recreational or commercial vehicle except in the areas defined in the council's resolution.

1330.15. Parking and storage. 
	Subdivision 1. Findings. The unregulated outside parking and outside storage of all motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment within a residential use district or accessory to a residential use is found to create a nuisance, hazard and detrimental influence upon the public health, safety and general welfare of the community by obstructing the view on streets and on private property, bringing noise and odors into residential areas, creating cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, preventing the full use of residential streets for residential parking, reducing the useable open space of streets and private property and otherwise adversely affecting residential property values and neighborhood maintenance and improvement.
	Subd. 2. Additional requirements. In addition to the other restrictions imposed by this code the restrictions of this subsection apply to the parking and storage of motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment in residential districts of the city.
	Subd. 3. Public ways. A motor vehicle or recreational vehicle and equipment may be parked in an authorized portion of any public street, alley, public right-of-way or driveway for that period of time which is in conformance with the parking regulations of this code.
	Subd. 4. Placement on a lawful driveway or auxiliary space.
		a) In any yard, recreational vehicles and equipment may not be placed within ten feet of the living quarters of the principal structure on the adjacent lot. For corner lots, in a front or side street side yard, motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment may only be placed on a hard surfaced driveway or lawful auxiliary parking space.
		b) In a front yard, motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment may only be placed on a hard surfaced driveway or lawful auxiliary parking space.
		c) Recreational vehicles and equipment not permitted to be operated on public streets, roads or other public property may not be parked or stored on a driveway or lawful auxiliary space unless placed on or in a trailer or motor vehicle.
		d) Not withstanding c) above, slip in campers are permitted when not mounted in the bed of a pickup if lowered to their lowest practicable profile and stabilized in a manner so as to be safe and secure and not pose a threat to a person’s health or safety.
		e) Wheeled fish houses are considered to be trailers and must be placed in accordance with this subsection. Non-wheeled fish houses are structures and must comply with section 515 (zoning).
		f) Recreational vehicles and equipment that are out of season may not be stored on any part of the driveway or lawful auxiliary parking space closer to the street than the principal structure.
		g) The total number of licensed motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment parked or stored on a lawful driveway or auxiliary space shall not exceed four for each single family dwelling or two per dwelling unit for a two family dwelling.
	Subd. 5. Placement in locations other than a lawful driveway or auxiliary space.
		a) Motor vehicles are prohibited, except those motor vehicles which are also recreational vehicles and equipment as defined in section 1330.03, subdivision 3.
		b) In any yard, recreational vehicles and equipment may not be placed within ten feet of the living quarters of the principal structure on the adjacent lot.
		c) In an interior side yard, recreational vehicles and equipment may not be placed closer than five feet to the side lot line.
		d) In a rear yard, recreational vehicles and equipment may not be placed closer than three feet to the interior side lot line or rear lot line. For corner lots, recreational vehicles and equipment may not be placed closer to the street side property line than the principal structure.
		e) In a front yard, recreational vehicles and equipment are prohibited unless they are located on a lawful driveway or auxiliary space in accordance with subdivision 4 b). For corner lots, recreational vehicles and equipment are prohibited in a front or side street yard unless they are located on a lawful driveway or auxiliary space in accordance with subdivision 4 b).
		f) Recreational vehicles and equipment may not be placed in that part of a side or rear yard closer to a principal structure on an abutting lot than to the owner’s principal building.
		g) Slip in campers, when not mounted in the bed of a pickup, must be lowered to their lowest practicable profile and stabilized in a manner so as to be safe and secure and not pose a threat to a person’s health or safety.
		h) Wheeled fish houses must be placed in accordance with this subsection. Non-wheeled fish houses are structures and must comply with section 515 (zoning).
	Subd. 6. Size. RVEs of any size may be parked or stored in the side or rear yard in accordance with this section. RVEs 32 feet or less in length may be parked or stored in a front yard or side street yard if on a hard surface driveway or auxiliary space in accordance with this section. RVEs exceeding 32 feet in length may be parked in the front yard or side street yard on a hard surface driveway or auxiliary space if the RVE complies with the front and side street building setbacks.
	Subd. 7. Coverage.
		a) The portion of the rear yard occupied by RVE’s shall not exceed 20%. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum RVE coverage for any rear yard shall be at least 600 square feet and not more than 1,200 square feet.
		b) The portion of the rear yard occupied by RVEs shall not exceed the residential footprint of the principal structure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum RVE coverage for any rear yard shall be at least 600 square feet and no more 1,200 square feet.
	Subd. 8. Licensing, operability and maintenance. Motor vehicles and recreational vehicles and equipment may be parked or stored outside in accordance with this section, provided that:
		a) All vehicles and equipment are currently licensed as required by law.
		b) All vehicles and equipment are operable and in a state of good repair at all times.
		c) All vehicles and equipment parked or stored on a property must be owned by and licensed to the owner or occupant of the dwelling where the vehicle or equipment is kept.
		d) Only fabric covering may be used to protect the recreational vehicle or equipment. If covers are used, they must be soundly secured to the vehicle or equipment, kept in a state of good repair, and fit tightly over the vehicle or equipment not significantly increasing the dimension thereof.
		e) When a recreational vehicle or equipment is parked or stored outside, no other material, debris or household items shall be placed on, under or against it. Only gear directly related to the use of the RVE may be stored in the RVE provided it is not visible.
	Subd. 9. Prohibited vehicles. The following shall not be parked or stored in residential use districts:
		a) Farm tractors and equipment
		b) Oversized military vehicles, including but not limited to, half-tracks, troop transports and tankers.
		c) Semi tractors or trailers.
		d) Any vehicle, not defined as a recreational vehicle, with a gross weight of greater than 12,000 pounds.
	Subd. 10. Commercial vehicles parked in a residential use district. For each dwelling unit, off street parking of not more than one licensed and operable commercial motor vehicle is permitted. Any such vehicle must be operated by a resident of that dwelling unit. If not a pick-up, minivan or full-size van of any size, the vehicle shall not exceed 12,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, 22 feet in length, eight feet in width, and eight feet in height. Such parking is only permitted in a garage or on a hard surface driveway or lawful auxiliary space in accordance with the requirements of subsection 515.17.
	Subd. 11. Motor vehicles parked or displayed in residential use districts for the purpose of selling or renting.
		a) No more than one vehicle may be displayed for sale at any given time on a lot.
		b) Vehicle displayed for sale shall not occur on any lot for more than six weeks in any 12 month period.
		c) Prior to it being displayed for sale, the vehicle was primarily used for personal transportation by the resident and was not purchased primarily for the purpose of re-selling the vehicle.
		d) The vehicle is parked on a hard surface.
		e) The vehicle is in such condition that it is fully operable and can immediately be driven on a public roadway in a lawful manner.
		f) The vehicle must have a current valid registration including having clearly visible current license plate tabs.
		g) The address listed on the registration is the same as the property where the vehicle is parked and displayed for sale.
		
1330.17. Continuation permits. For certain specific provisions of this code, when it can be shown by the owner of an RVE that their vehicle or equipment cannot be reasonably parked or stored in accordance with this section, but was parked or stored in a manner consistent with the previous code provisions in effect prior to the effective date of this code, the city manager may issue an RVE continuation permit to grant an exception from the specific provision. RVE continuation permits shall only be issued to grant exceptions from the following specific provisions, and only when all of the listed criteria are met:
	 Out of season RVEs where the owner is unable to access the side or rear yard.
	 1330.15 subdivision 5 c): RVEs parked or stored within the five foot setback in interior side yards where the owner is unable to access the rear yard.
	 1330.15 subdivision 5 e): RVEs parked or stored on a corner lot in the front or side street yard and not located on a hard surface.
	 1330.15 subdivision 6: RVEs exceeding 32 feet in length parked or stored within the front yard or side street building setbacks and located on a hard surface.
	The RVE continuation permit shall terminate and the property shall fully comply with this section upon the property owner 
		(1) ceasing to own the property, 
		(2) ceasing to occupy the property, or 
		(3) ceasing to own the RVE for which the permit was issued. The city manager may require completion of an application for such RVE continuation permit. The city council may require payment of a fee prior to issuance of such RVE continuation permit, said fee to be established in the city’s fee schedule.
	In no case shall a permit allow for the parking or storage of an RVE in a boulevard or public right-of-way.

1330.19. Unauthorized use. Recreational vehicles may not be used for living or housekeeping purposes while parked or stored on residential lot.

1330.21. Authorized parking and storage. Recreational vehicles and equipment may be parked or stored within a private garage at any time.

1330.23. Effective date. The effective date of this section shall be August 1, 2007.
