Section 1340 - Motorcycles and motor bikes
1340.01. Operator's license. A person owning, leasing or having the care or custody of a motorcycle may not allow an unlicensed driver to operate the same except on private property. It is unlawful to misstate one's age or driver's qualifications or to use a false driver's license to obtain the rental or use of a motorcycle or motor vehicle.

1340.03. Erratic operation prohibited. 
	Subdivision 1. Rules of road. The driver of a motorcycle must comply with the rules of the road and with the traffic laws of the state of Minnesota, be courteous to other drivers, passengers and respect the rights of pedestrians in or about the streets.
	Subd. 2. Acrobatics. Stunts, drills, acrobatics, "bump tag", "chicken", racing, games, contests of any type or variety are prohibited on the city streets, or upon private property except upon application and receipt of an amusement license from the city.
	Subd. 3. Riding abreast. Only one motorcycle or motor vehicle may occupy a single traffic lane at one time. Three or more motorcycles are forbidden to ride abreast in the same traffic lane.
	Subd. 4. Private property. A motorcycle may not be driven across private property without permission of the owner or occupant thereof except upon private parking lots where off-street parking is furnished for their customers or guests and such motorcycle is to be parked therein.
	Subd. 5. Public property. A motorcycle may not be operated on a public sidewalk.
	Subd. 6. Horns. Horns on motor vehicles must be used for traffic purposes only and not to call attention to the operator, a passenger or for other purposes.
	
1340.05. Safety of driver. 
	Subdivision 1. Controls. Each prospective driver of a motorcycle must familiarize himself with controls, pedals, gears, hand and foot brakes necessary to operate or stop the motorcycle prior to operating the same.
	Subd. 2. Care. Care must be exercised by the driver in turning on sand, ice or wet streets knowing that two wheels provide less stability and traction than four.
	Subd. 3. Brakes. A driver must apply rear brakes first before applying front wheel brakes on a motorcycle, if so equipped.

1340.07. Safety of passenger. 
	Subdivision 1. Seat required. Passengers may not be carried on a motorcycle except on the the seat.
	Subd. 2. Security. When a passenger is aboard a motorcycle the driver thereof must be certain that the passenger has a firm grip on the motorcycle or driver before moving same.
	Subd. 3. Unseating passenger. When a passenger is aboard a motorcycle the driver thereof must avoid sharp turns or radical movement or quick stopping of the motorcycle to avoid unseating the passenger.
	Subd. 4. Exhaust manifold. The operator must show the prospective passenger the location of the exhaust manifold and may not permit any passenger to ride on his motorcycle where a leg comes in contact with the exhaust manifold.
	Subd. 5. Helmets. The operator must wear an approved helmet when operating the motorcycle.
