Section 1345 - Skateboards
1345.01. Definition. A skateboard is a footboard or similar object mounted on wheels and designed or intended to propel a rider by human power or force of gravity but without mechanical assistance. The following are not skateboards: a wheelchair operated by a disabled person, or a scooter with an upright steering handle.

1345.03. General purpose. The purpose of this section is to prevent injuries arising out of the use of skateboards in areas where conditions are such as to present an imminent danger to skateboarders or pedestrians. 1345.05. Skateboard regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. It is unlawful to operate a skateboard on a street, alley, sidewalk or parking area within commercial and industrial zoning districts (that is, districts zoned B-1A, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1 and I-2) unless authorized by a permit granted in accordance with subdivision 8.
	Subd. 2. Streets. It is unlawful to operate a skateboard upon the shoulder of main-travelled portion of a state or county road within the city.
	Subd. 3. Safe operation. It is unlawful to operate a skateboard carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the rights of others, or in a manner that endangers or is likely to endanger persons, property or the operator of the skateboard.
	Subd. 4. Traffic. It is unlawful to operate a skateboard in a place where the surface or traffic conditions render the place unsafe for skateboarding.
	Subd. 5. Private property. It is unlawful to operate a skateboard on private property without the prior express permission of the owner of the property.
	Subd. 6. Right-of-way. An operator of a skateboard must yield the right-of-way to any other type of vehicle or a pedestrian while the operator is entering or travelling upon a street, alley, sidewalk or bicycle path.
	Subd. 7. Parks. The operation and use of skateboards in public parks in the city is subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the city manager under subsection 815.07.
	Subd. 8. Temporary permit. The owner of property located within a district specified in subdivision 1 may apply for a temporary permit to allow skateboarding on the owner's property for a special event or during specified hours by applying to the city manager. If a permit is granted the owner must require appropriate precautions to protect the safety of participants and spectators.
	
1345.07. Penalties. A person who violates this section is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and may be fined up to $50.
