Section 1315 - Sale of unclaimed motor vehicles
1315.01. Abandoned motor vehicle law adopted by reference. Minnesota Statutes, chapter 168B, is except as modified by this section adopted by reference and is as much a part of this code as if fully set forth herein. A violation of the statutes adopted herein by reference is a violation of this code. (Amended, Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 4)

1315.03. Policy; purpose; findings. 
	Subdivision 1. The city council has found and determined 
		i) that the presence of junk vehicles and abandoned vehicles on private property in the city constitutes a public health and safety hazard; 
		ii) that in many instances junk and abandoned vehicles are kept on private property by the owners of the property themselves or by others with the consent of the property owner; 
		iii) that in some instances the fair market value of a junk vehicle exceeds the approximate value of the scrap in the vehicle; and 
		iv) that it is necessary to adopt regulations for the removal of junk and abandoned vehicles from private property more stringent than those contained in Minnesota Statutes, chapter 168B. (Added, Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 4)
		
1315.05. Modification of chapter 168B. 
	Subdivision 1. Definitions. For purposes of this section,
		a) the term "abandoned vehicle" includes a vehicle defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 168B.011, subdivision 2 that is on private property with or without the consent of the person in control of the property;
		b) the term "junk vehicle" includes a vehicle defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 168B.011, subdivision 3, the fair market value of which exceeds the approximate scrap value of the vehicle. (Added, Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 4)
	Subd. 2. Notice and hearing. Before impounding an abandoned vehicle or a junk vehicle under Minnesota Statutes, section 168B.04, the city manager must give ten days' mailed written notice to the owner of or person in control of the property on which the vehicle is located. The notice must state:
		a) a description of the vehicle;
		b) that the vehicle must be moved or properly stored within ten days of service of the notice;
		c) that if the vehicle is not removed or properly stored as ordered, the vehicle will be towed and impounded at an identified location;
		d) that the vehicle may be reclaimed in accordance with the procedures contained in Minnesota Statutes, sections 168B.02 and 168B.07 or disposed of in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, section 168B.08; and
		e) that the owner of the vehicle or the owner of or person in control of the property on which the vehicle is located may in writing request a hearing before the city manager. (Added, Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 4)
		
1315.07. Hearing; action. If a hearing is requested under subsection 1315.05, subdivision 2, clause e) the manager must promptly schedule the hearing, and no further action on the towing and impoundment of the vehicle may be taken until the manager's decision is rendered. At the conclusion of the hearing the manager may 
	i) cancel the notice to remove the vehicle, 
	ii) modify the notice, or iii) affirm the notice to remove. If the notice is modified or affirmed the vehicle must be disposed of in accordance with the city manager's written order. (Added, Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 4)
