Section 1335 - Snowmobile regulation
1335.01. State laws and regulations adopted by reference. 
	Subdivision 1. Snowmobile law. Minnesota Statutes, sections 84.81, 84.82, 84.87, 84.871, 84.872, 84.88, 84.89, 100.26, subdivision 29, are adopted by reference and are as much a part of this code as if fully set forth herein.
	Subd. 2. Department of natural resources rules. The rules of the commission of natural resources of the state of Minnesota applying to snowmobiles, are adopted by reference and are as much a part of this code as if fully set forth herein.
	Subd. 3. Violations. A violation of the statutes or rules herein adopted by reference is a violation of this section.
	
1335.03. Additional regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. Purpose. In accordance with the authority granted by Minnesota Statutes, section 84.87, the city enacts the additional regulations contained in this subsection.
	Subd. 2. Operation prohibited. It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile:
		a) On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian travel;
		b) On private property of another without lawful authority or written consent of the owner or occupant;
		c) On any publicly owned lands and frozen waters, including but not limited to school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses, except areas previously listed or authorized for such use by the proper public authority. Authorized areas in the city owned by the city may be designated by council resolution.
	Subd. 3. Towing. It is unlawful to tow any person or thing by snowmobile except by use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile.
	Subd. 4. Speed. It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile at a speed greater than ten miles an hour when within 100 feet of any lakeshore, except in channels, or of fishermen, skaters, pedestrians, ice houses or skating rinks; within 100 feet of any sliding area; or where the operation would conflict with the lawful use of property or would endanger other persons or property.
	Subd. 5. Noise. It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile in a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which disturbs, annoys, or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons.
	Subd. 6. Hours. Snowmobile operation is prohibited between the hours of 9:30 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
	Subd. 7. Dead-man throttle. It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile without a safety or so-called "dead-man" throttle in operating condition, so that when pressure is removed from the accelerator or throttle, the motor is disengaged from the driving track.
	Subd. 8. Leaving snowmobiles unattended. A person leaving a snowmobile in a public place must lock the ignition, remove the key and take the key away from the snowmobile.\
