GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 100 - Title; citation; statutory references

100.01. Title. This codification of the ordinances of the city of Crystal may be referred to and cited as: "The Crystal city code of 1994."

100.03. Citation; reference; numbering system. For the purposes of internal references in code and citation by its users, the following terms are used:
Chapter Roman numerals (e.g. chapter XI)
Section Arabic numerals (e.g. section 1100)
Subsection Arabic numerals for section and subsection separated by decimal
(e.g., subsection 110.01)
Clause Arabic letters, lower case, in parentheses (e.g. (a))

Reference or citations made in a form other than the foregoing will not defeat the intent of the council in enacting an ordinance or the intent of a user in citing the code when such intent is otherwise unclear. This code is to be construed liberally to carry out its intent and purposes.

100.05. Adoption by reference. Statutes or administrative rules or regulations of the state of Minnesota, codes and ordinances adopted by reference in this code are adopted pursuant to authority granted by Minnesota Statutes, section 471.62. At least one copy of any item so adopted, but not less than the number of copies required by law, must be kept in the office of the city clerk for use by the public.

100.07. Official statutes; codes; regulations; and ordinances. References in this code to Minnesota Statutes are to Minnesota Statutes 2002 and Laws of Minnesota 2003, unless otherwise provided in this code. References in this code to rules and regulations of state agencies, codes, and ordinances of other municipalities are to those documents in effect on August 1, 2003, unless otherwise provided. (Amended, Ord. No. 95-12, Sec. 4, Ord. No. 97-9, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 2003-5)

100.09. Relation to state law. It is the intent of the city council that the provisions of this code are the fullest exercise of the regulatory and other powers granted to it by state law and the city charter. Where this code imposes a more stringent rule or standard of conduct than contained in similar provisions of state law, rule or regulation, it is the intent of the council that the provisions of this code prevail over that state law, rule or regulation to the extent permitted by law.
