Crystal City Code 110.01
(Rev. 1997)
Section 110 - Legislative procedure

110.01. Ordinances; enactment. Ordinances are enacted in accordance with the procedures set forth in the city charter. Ordinances are to be integrated into this code in accordance with this section.

110.03. Form of amendments and new ordinances. An ordinance amending this code must specify the subsection, subdivision and clause to be amended. Language to be added must be underlined; language to be repealed must be stricken. An ordinance repealing an entire chapter, section, subsection, subdivision or clause
need refer only to that chapter, section, subsection, subdivision or clause, and the text need not be reproduced. The text of an ordinance adding only new provisions to the code need not be underlined.

110.05. Headnotes, etc. Chapter, section, subsection and subdivision headnotes, titles and cross referencesare not substantive parts of this code, but merely matters to expedite and simplify its use.

110.07. Integration of ordinances into code. 
 Subdivision 1. Duties of manager and attorney. The manager and city attorney must recommend to the council a system for integrating ordinances into the code in the most expeditious manner possible. They must recommend to the council rules consistent with this section for the preparation, editing and format of ordinances to be presented to the council.
 Subd. 2. Matters omitted. When an ordinance is integrated into this code, the following matters may be omitted:
  a) title.
  b) enacting clause.
  c) section numbers.
  d) definition of terms identical to those contained in this code.
  e) validation and repealing clauses.
  f) validating signatures and dates.
  g) punctuation and other matters not an integral part of the text of the ordinance.
  h) penalty provisions.
 Subd. 3. Errors. When integrating ordinances into the code, the manager and attorney may correct manifest grammatical, punctuation, and spelling errors; change reference numbers to conform with sections, subsections, chapters and ordinances; substitute figures for written words and vice versa; substitute dates for the words "the effective date of this ordinance"; and perform like actions to insure a uniform code of ordinances without, however, altering the meaning of the ordinances enacted.
 Subd. 4. Source notes. When an ordinance is integrated into this code, a source note must be added at the end of each new chapter, section, subsection or subdivision indicating the ordinance number and section from which the changed language was derived. 

Crystal City Code 110.09 (Rev. 1999)
110.09. Ordinance records; special ordinances. The city clerk is responsible for the safe and orderly keeping of ordinances in a manner directed by the council. Any ordinance not included in this code by council direction is a special ordinance. The clerk must maintain an up-to-date, indexed record of all special ordinances. The council may direct that special ordinances and others be included in appendices to this code.

110.11. Effective date of ordinances. Ordinances are effective on the dates specified in the city charter.

110.13. (Added, Ord. No. 99-03, Sec.1) Summary publication of ordinances. 
 Subdivision 1. Charter authority. Section 3.12 of the charter of the city of Crystal authorizes the City council to adopt procedures for the publication of ordinances in summary form. The procedures set forth in this section are established pursuant to that authority.
 Subd. 2. Summary publication authorized. All ordinances approved by the City council will be published in summary form, unless the council directs otherwise by motion adopted prior to or immediately following the final passage of the ordinance. The form of summary must be approved by a motion of the council adopted immediately following the final passage of the ordinance.
 Subd. 3. Procedures. The published summary must 
	(a) state the title of the ordinance, 
	(b) contain a general statement of the purpose and effect of the ordinance, and 
	(c) indicate that a printed copy of the full text of the ordinance is available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk. The city clerk must record the published summary, the text of the ordinance, and the affidavit of publication in the ordinance book of the city.
 Subd. 4. Effect of summary. Publishing of a summary in accordance with this section will fulfill all legal publication requirements as completely as if the entire ordinance had been published. 
