Section 105 - Definition of terms; interpretation; conflicts

105.01. Definitions; common terms. 
 Subdivision 1. For purposes of this code, the terms defined in this section have the meanings given them.
 Subd. 2. "Charter" means the charter of the city.
 Subd. 3. "City" means the city of Crystal and all the territory lying within its boundaries over which it has jurisdiction.
 Subd. 4. "Code", "this code" or "code of ordinances" means the Crystal city code adopted by ordinance in 1994, as organized, compiled and codified herein.
 Subd. 5. "Council" means the city council of the city of Crystal.
 Subd. 6. "Manager" means the Crystal city manager.
 Subd. 7. "Clerk" means the Crystal city clerk.
 Subd. 8. "Owner" means, in the case of personal property, a person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title to personal property. In the case of real property, the term means the fee owner of land, or the beneficial owner of land whose interest is primarily one of possession and enjoyment in contemplation of ultimate ownership. The term includes, but is not limited to, vendees under a contract for deed and mortgagors.
 Subd. 9. "Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation; the term may extend and be applied to bodies corporate and politic, and to partnerships and other unincorporated associations.
 Subd. 10. "Health authority" means the health officer or the public health sanitarian.
 Subd. 11. A reference to an elected or appointed city officer includes the duly authorized representative of that officer.
 Subd. 12. "Local non-profit/civic organization" means (i) a non-profit corporation located in the city and qualified under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, (ii) a club as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.101, subdivision 7, located in the city, (iii) the city, (iv) the Crystal volunteer fire department relief association, (v) independent school district 281, or (vi) a volunteer committee organized for the sole purpose of sponsoring or assisting in the conduct of a civic celebration officially recognized by the city. 

Crystal City Code 105.03 (Rev. 1997)
105.03. Definitions; statutory. For purposes of this code, the terms defined in Minnesota Statutes, sections 645.44 and 645.45 have the meanings given them by those sections; and terms defined by statutes, rules or regulations, and ordinances adopted by reference have the meanings given them therein.

105.05. Definition; internal. Terms defined in other sections of this code have the meanings given them by those sections.

105.07. Interpretation; conflicts. 
 Subdivision 1. Common usage. Words and phrases used in this code are to be interpreted and understood in accordance with common and accepted usage, but any technical words or phrases or such others as have acquired a specific or peculiar meaning are to be interpreted and understood in accordance with such meaning.
 Subd. 2. Statutory rules. It is the intent of the city council that the rules and canons of construction, presumptions and miscellaneous provisions relating to statutory construction contained in Minnesota Statutes, chapter 645, apply to this code and govern its interpretation, and that all questions of meaning, construction and interpretation of this code be resolved by application of the rules contained in chapter 645. The provisions of Minnesota Statutes, chapter 645, are adopted by reference and are as much a part of this code as if fully set forth herein.
 
105.09. Zoning district classifications; conformance of references to zoning code. 
 Subdivision 1. District classification. The zoning district classification listed in column 1, wherever they appear in this code, are to be interpreted to mean the corresponding zoning district classifications listed in column 2.
Column 1 Column 2
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-0, P-2, PUD-(GR)
C-1 B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, P-1, PUD-(CI)
C-2 B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, P-1, PUD-(CI)
C-3 B-1-A, P-1, PUD-(CI)
M-1 I-1, I-2, P-1, PUD-(CI)
M-2 I-1, I-2, P-1, PUD-(CI)
 Subd. 2. Intent. The intent of this subsection is to conform the zoning district classification of this
section to those of the city code, appendix I, section 515.

105.11. References to non-intoxicating liquor, beer. 
 Subdivision 1. The term "3.2 percent malt liquor" is substituted for the term "beer" or "non-intoxicating malt liquor" whenever those terms appear in this code.
 Subd. 2. The city clerk is authorized and directed to delete the term "beer" and "non-intoxicating malt liquor" and substitute the term "3.2 percent malt liquor" in all relevant city documents, licenses and permits.
(Added, Ord. No. 97-9, Sec. 2)
