Section 305 - Administrative code; boards and commissions
305.01. Charter authority. Section 2.02 of the charter of the city of Crystal authorizes the city council to create such advisory boards and commissions as it deems necessary. The boards and commissions set forth in this section are created pursuant to that authority and pursuant to applicable state law. 305.03. Advisory nature. Except as otherwise provided by law or charter, the boards and commissions created by this section are advisory to the council and to the city manager in all matters pertinent to the duties of the council and the manager, but the boards and commissions have no other official status or independent authority. Boards and commissions are referred to in this section as advisory commissions.

305.05. Compensation. Unless otherwise provided by law or charter, members of advisory commissions serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses if funds for that purpose are identified in the adopted city budget.

305.07. Membership and terms of office. 
	Subdivision 1. Eligibility. Members of advisory commissions must be residents of the city. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this section, a person serving on an advisory commission may apply for and be appointed to another advisory commission, but on the effective date of the appointment to the second commission, the office of the member on the first commission is vacant. A member of the employee review board (“ERB”) may apply and be appointed to any other board or commission at the discretion of the city council without such appointment creating a vacancy on the ERB. (Amended, Ord. 2006-4, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. Terms. Members of the advisory commissions are appointed for a term of three years. Terms of members commence on January 1 of the year in which they are appointed and continue until a successor is appointed and qualified.

305.09. Appointment; application; reappointment; notification. 
	Subdivision 1. Appointment. Members of advisory commissions are appointed by the city council.
	Subd. 2. Applications. Applications for appointment to an advisory commission must be submitted in writing to the city manager, who arranges for the applicant's appearance before the city council if a vacancy on that particular commission is to be filled. The city manager must forward a copy of all applications to the chair of the respective commission. 
Crystal City Code 305.09, Subd. 3
 (Rev. 2002)
 
	Subd. 3. Reappointment. A member of an advisory commission desiring reappointment upon expiration of a term must notify the city council of such intention at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the term.
	Subd. 4. Notification. The city council must cause to be publicized in the official newspaper and by posting in the city hall lobby a verification of vacancies and impending expiration of terms of members of various advisory commissions together with an invitation to interested citizens to apply for appointment. The notice must be published no less than once each month as long as a vacancy on an advisory commission exists. The council may not make such appointments until at least one week has elapsed from the date of the initial publication and posting.

305.11. Meetings. 
	Subdivision 1. Regular meetings. Meetings of advisory commissions are held at such date, time and places as are set forth in their respective by-laws, and they meet as necessary to fulfill the objectives of the board or commission. The procedure at meetings is governed by the by-laws of the board or commission and Robert's Rules of Order, Revised.
	Subd. 2. Open meetings. Meetings of advisory commissions are open to the public. Dates, time and place of meetings must be published quarterly each calendar year in the official newspaper and in such other publications as the board or commission may direct. Notice of regular and special meetings of advisory commissions must be posted in a prominent place at the Crystal city hall.

305.13. Attendance; vacancies; resignations; removal from office. 
	Subdivision 1. Attendance. Members of the advisory commissions are expected to faithfully participate in the meetings or other activities of the commission to which they have been appointed.
	Subd. 2. Vacancies. Vacancies in the advisory commissions are filled by the city council for the remainder of the unexpired term.
	Subd. 3. Removal from office. Commission members may be removed from office by a majority vote of the city council.
	
305.15. Organization; by-laws. 
	Subdivision 1. Organization. Within 30 days after the first appointment of its members, an advisory commission must meet to adopt by-laws for the conduct of its affairs.
	Subd. 2. By-laws. Commission by-laws must provide for the election from its membership of a chairperson, vice-chairperson, secretary, and such other officers as it deems necessary. The by-laws must specify the month of the election of officers, duties of the officers, composition of task forces and committees, date and time of meetings, number of members to constitute a quorum, the order of business, attendance requirements, and other matters necessary for the conduct of the business of the advisory commissions. The by-laws must provide that the term of office for each officer is one year, and that no officer may serve for more than two consecutive years in the same position. The by-laws of each commission are not effective until approved by the city council. The advisory commissions must endeavor to adopt uniform by-laws. (Amended, Ord. No. 2002-08, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. Recorder. The commission secretary is appointed by the chair; provided however, that the city manager may assign members of the city administrative staff to serve as secretary to a commission as deemed necessary. The secretary performs the clerical duties of the commission. 

Crystal City Code 305.17 (Rev. 2000)

305.17. Minutes; reports; liaison. 
	Subdivision 1. Minutes. The proceedings of advisory commission meetings must be recorded in minute form and transmitted to the city clerk, who must furnish copies to each member of the commission, the mayor and city council members. A commission may make copies of its minutes available to other advisory commissions and individuals as it deems necessary. The commission must keep a record of all resolutions, transactions, and findings. These records and minutes are public records.
	Subd. 2. Reports. Advisory commissions must make an annual report to the city council containing the commission's summary of the commission's activities, conclusions and recommendations. The annual report may include a proposed budget for the commission for the ensuing year. The report must be submitted prior to August 1 of each year. Other commission reports, conclusions, and recommendations must be made from time to time to the city council as may be requested by the council or as the commission deems appropriate in light of the matter being considered.
	Subd. 3. Requests for expenditure of funds. Advisory commission activities requiring the expenditure of funds from the commission's budget must be submitted to the city manager with estimated cost figures prior to any commitment of the expenditures.
	Subd. 4. Liaison. The city council must annually appoint one councilmember as an ex-officio member without voting rights to each advisory commission to provide a liaison between the city council and the commissions.
	
305.19. Application. Subsections 305.07, 305.11, 305.13, 305.15 and 305.17, do not apply to the board of adjustments and appeals.

305.21. Park and recreation advisory commission. 
	Subdivision 1. Policy and purpose. The park and recreation advisory commission is established to promote the systematic, comprehensive development of park facilities and recreational activities necessary for the physical, mental, emotional, and moral health and well-being of the residents of the city of Crystal.
	Subd. 2. Duties of the commission. The park and recreation advisory commission advises and makes recommendations to the city council in matters pertaining to park and recreation programs in the city.
	Subd. 3. Membership. The park and recreation advisory commission consists of ten members. One member is appointed from each of the respective wards in the city, and six members are appointed from the city at large. Two of the members appointed at large may be students in a junior, middle or senior high school at the time of their appointment. (Amended, Ord. No. 2000-06, Sec. 1)

305.23. Environmental quality commission. (Repealed, Ord. No. 94-9, Sec. 2) 
305.24. Environmental quality commission. 
	Subdivision 1. Purpose. The environmental quality commission is to stimulate interest in the proper use of, and care for, the natural resources of the city; be informed about laws, policies and regulations of all levels of government that may have environmental or ecological significance for the city; advise the city council on matters relating to the conservation of environmental resources, including the study and proposal of possible environmental policies; and promote public education and awareness relating to such environmental issues. (Amended, Ord. No. 98-3, Sec. 1) 

Crystal City Code 305.24, Subd. 2
 (Rev. 1994)
	Subd. 2. Commission objectives. To review, study and recommend public policy to address the following:
		a) ensure community development and redevelopment is compatible with the natural environment;
		b) provide and preserve natural sites that may offer suitable habitat for wildlife;
		c) conserve unique and essential natural features of the city;
		d) mitigate adverse impacts related to issues such as noise, odor, air quality, water quality and visual blight;
		e) protection of people and property from environmental hazards;
		f) participate in responsible methods of waste management with emphasis on reducing the waste stream;
		g) promote conservation of energy resources;
		h) protect and improve the city's storm water storage capacity while improving ground and surface water quality;
		i) encourage citizen participation in matters affecting the quality of the environment in terms of protecting and enhancing the quality of life, health and general welfare of the city and its residents; and
		j) promote general public education in relation to environmental issues.
	Subd. 3. Membership. The commission consists of ten members. (Added, Ord. No. 94-9, Sec. 1) 
	
305.25. Youth commission. 
	Subdivision 1. Policy and purpose. The youth commission is established to offer the young adults of our community a means of direct communication with the city council in establishing policies which affect the city.
	Subd. 2. Duties of the commission. The youth commission advises the city council on such matters as may be referred to it by the council. In addition, the commission is to study and evaluate the needs of youth in the city of Crystal; promote and encourage participation of youth in the development and solving of problems of the city; and formulate and recommend to the city council such programs and plans as will promote the foregoing matters. The foregoing activities are not exclusive and do not prohibit the commission from engaging in other related community activities. 

Crystal City Code 305.25, Subd. 3
 (Rev. 2005)
	Subd. 3. Membership. The commission consists of 15 members ranging in age from ninth grade students through 20 years of age. The term of office is one year, provided, however, that the term of office of any member terminates on the member's 21st birthday.

305.27. Human rights commission. 
	Subdivision 1. Policy. It is the public policy of the city of Crystal to strive to:
		a) secure for all residents of the city freedom from discrimination because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, physical or mental disability, status with regard to public assistance in connection with employment, housing and real property, public accommodations, public services and education, and sexual orientation. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-15, Sec. 1)
		b) improve the human relations attitude and behavior climate in the city with specific attention to the needs of the youth, minority groups, the aging, and other groups of citizens. The human rights commission is established to assist the city council in carrying out this policy.
	Subd. 2. Duties of the commission. The duties of the commission are as follows:
		a) to advise the council on matters and problems relating to discrimination and human relations and behavior in the city.
		b) to recommend to the council programs of education and community and municipal action designed to effectuate the policies set forth in this subsection.
		c) to implement such programs referred to in paragraph b) as may be directed for commission action by the city council.
		d) to cooperate with the state department of human rights and other state and local agencies in recommending to the city council the formulation and implementation of programs designed to effectuate the policies stated in this subsection.
		e) to investigate, study, and make recommendations to the city council for referral to the commissioner of human rights under the Minnesota Human Rights Act.
		f) to undertake, only with prior approval by the city council, any other functions authorized for local commissions under the Minnesota Human Rights Act.
	Subd. 3. Membership. The commission consists of ten members.
	Subd. 4. Grievance resolution. The commission, in cooperation with the state department of human rights, may conduct a program for the informal resolution of disputes involving possible unfair discriminatory practices under the Minnesota Human Rights Act. Prior to conducting the program, and prior to June 1, annually thereafter, the commission must submit to the city council for approval a description of the commission's proposed program containing program elements and procedures and a proposed budget therefor. Expenditures by commission members and city officers and employees for activities conducted under the program must be made only in accordance with the program and budget as approved by the city council. 

305.29. Planning commission. 
	Subdivision 1. Policy and duties. The planning commission has those powers and duties assigned to it by Minnesota Statutes, section 462.351 to 462.364, (the Municipal Planning Act) and by this code. The planning commission is designated the planning agency of the city in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, section 462.354.  Subd. 2. Membership. The planning commission consists of nine members. Two members are appointed from each of the four wards of the city and one member is appointed at large. The city manager, building inspector and public works director act as consultants to the planning commission.
	Subd. 3. Oath of office. Members of the planning commission must, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, take an oath as prescribed by section 12.02 of the city charter that they will faithfully discharge the duties of their office.

305.31. Board of adjustments and appeals. 
	Subdivision 1. Policy. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 462.354, a board of adjustments and appeals is created and continued. The board consists of the planning commission.
	Subd. 2. Duties of the board.
		a) The board hears and makes recommendations with respect to appeals from any order, decision or determination made by an administrative officer in the enforcement of the zoning code.
		b) The board hears requests for variances from literal provisions of the zoning code in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, section 462.357.
		c) The board hears appeals from the denial of a building permit for structures within the limits of a mapped street pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 462.359.
	Subd. 3. Rules; records. The board must adopt rules governing its procedure. The board must provide for a record of its proceedings including minutes of its meetings, its findings, and its action.
	Subd. 4. Hearings. A matter may not be heard by the board until the applicant thereon has been given ten days' mailed notice in writing of the date and place of the hearing. The notice is given by mailing to applicant at the applicant's last known address.
	Subd. 5. Review of decisions. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 462.354, subdivision 2, the decisions of the board are advisory to the city council. 
Crystal City Code 305.33 (Rev. 2002)

305.33. Economic development advisory commission. 
	Subdivision 1. Purpose. The economic development advisory commission is established to assist and advise the city council and the economic development authority of the city of Crystal in matters relating to the economic development and redevelopment of the city.
	Subd. 2. Membership. The commission consists of ten members as follows:
		a) two members who own businesses in the city (these members need not be residents of the city);
		b) two members who are also members of the planning advisory commission (if either of these members terminate their membership on the planning commission, their membership on this commission ceases);
		c) one member over the age of 55;
		d) one member from each of the four wards of the city; and
		e) one member at large.
	Subd 3. Appointments. In making appointments to the commission the city council must give consideration to the special qualifications of members who have experience and expertise in the areas of business, finance, economics and other fields related to the subject of economic development and redevelopment.
