Administrative code; volunteer fire department; special provisions (Repealed, Ord. No. 97-4, Sec. 2)

Section 320 – Crystal New Hope west metro fire-rescue district (Added, Ord. No. 2000-07)

320.01. Enabling legislation. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 471.59 and 1995 Minnesota Laws, chapter 262 (collectively, the "Act"), the city of Crystal has entered into a joint and cooperative agreement ("Agreement") with the city of New Hope that establishes a joint fire district. 

320.03. West metro fire-rescue district codified. Pursuant to the Act and Agreement, the west metro firerescue district ("District") is hereby codified. The District was originally established by a joint and cooperative agreement between the cities of Crystal and New Hope. This Agreement was acted upon and approved by the New Hope and Crystal city councils in Crystal resolution numbers 97-120 and 98-12 and New Hope resolution numbers 97-139 and 97-172. The effective date for operation of the District per the Agreement is July 6, 1998.

320.05. Purpose. The general purpose of the District is to create a joint fire department that serves both Crystal and New Hope. Article 11 of the Act further provides for the consolidation of the fire relief associations of the respective fire departments in New Hope and Crystal. The creation of the west metro firerescue district is intended to deliver to each city effective and economical fire suppression services.

320.07. Board of directors. The District shall be governed and controlled by a board of directors ("Board") as set forth in the Agreement. Per the Agreement, the Board shall consist of nine members, each having one vote and selected as follows (public members need not be a resident of either city):
	1) two members of the Crystal city council appointed by council resolution;
	2) two members of the New Hope city council appointed by council resolution;
	3) the city manager of Crystal, ex officio;
	4) the city manager of New Hope, ex officio;
	5) one public member appointed by the Crystal city council and one public member appointed by the New Hope city council, neither of whom may be an employee of the District or of the police department of either city; and 
	6) one public member appointed by joint resolution of the city councils of the city of Crystal and city of New Hope, but such member may not be an employee of the District or of the police department of either city.
	
320.09. Board of directors: term. Per the Agreement, the term of directors, other than directors, ex officio, begins on the date of appointment and terminates on December 31 next following. Thereafter, the term of a director is two years commencing on January 1, except that of the public directors initially appointed: 
	(i) one director serves a term of one year, 
	(ii) one director serves a term of two years, 
	(iii) one director serves a term of three years, and 
	(iv) thereafter all public directors serve a term of two years. Directors serve until their respective successors are appointed and qualify. A vacancy in the office of director, other than an ex officio director, is filled in the same manner that an appointment of a director is made. If a council member ceases to be a council member, the office of director held by that council member is vacant.
	
320.11. Powers and duties of board of directors. The powers and duties of the Board are as set forth in the Agreement that established the District. The Board shall conduct all meetings, elect officers, appoint committees, hire and retain personnel including a fire chief, enter into contracts, purchase, hold and dispose of personal property, and conduct all financial matters in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement. The Board shall also submit a written report to each city council summarizing in detail the District's activities and financial status on at least a quarterly basis. 

320.13. Amendment or dissolution of district. Amendments to the Agreement or dissolution of the District are governed by Article X of the Agreement. Per Article X, the District may be dissolved at any time by unanimous vote of the Board or by identical resolutions of dissolution adopted by each city council. The Agreement may be amended by identical resolutions adopted by each city council. An amendment is effective when it is filed together with the authorizing resolutions with the fire chief.

320.15. City agreement. The cities of New Hope and Crystal have both agreed to be bound by the terms of the Agreement creating the District. 
