Fire department; special provisions (Added, Ord. No. 97-4, Sec. 1) 
321.01. Conflicts; provisions to control. It is the intent of the city council that the provisions of this section relating to the fire department apply exclusively to the department. Where a conflict exists between this section and any other section of this code, the provisions of this section control.

321.03. Fire department established. There is established and continued a fire department having the organizational structure, powers and duties set forth in this section. The fire department provides fire and safety services and security to the people of the city. Major areas of involvement of the department are fire suppression, emergency medical support, fire prevention through code enforcement and public education, hazardous materials release response and specialized heavy rescue.

321.05. Personnel. 
	Subdivision 1. Classification of personnel. Paid on call firefighters are classified as nonbenefit earning part time employees. Other fire department personnel are classified as stated in the city personnel classification plan.
	Subd. 2. Authorized complement. The authorized complement of the department is 50 persons including probationary firefighters, regular firefighters and fire officers.
	Subd. 3. Officers. The department has a fire chief and other fire officers as approved by the city manager.
	Subd. 4. Appointment of personnel. Each firefighter may be not less than 18 years of age and must live within the response time limit as established by fire department policy. An applicant for employment must pass a testing process as required by fire department policy that must include an oral interview, physical ability test, physical examination and criminal background check. Appointment to the fire department is made by the city manager.
	Subd. 5. Probationary period. A probationary firefighter may be discharged from the fire department by the city manager without cause. The probationary period for a new firefighter is one year.
	Subd. 6. Selection of officers. Fire officers are appointed by the city manager after taking into consideration the results of a competitive test in accordance with fire department policy.
	Subd. 7. Suspension or discharge. Any regular firefighter or fire officer may be suspended, demoted or discharged by the city manager. The decision of the city manager may be appealed to the employee review board. The appeal must be in writing and delivered to the city manager within ten days of the manager's decision.
	
321.07. Duties of the fire chief. 
	Subdivision 1. Direction of department personnel. The fire chief manages and directs the personnel and equipment of the fire department. The chief is responsible for establishing fire department policies and procedures. The policies and procedures must be approved by the city manager. 
	Subd. 2. Fire marshal. The office of the fire marshal is held by the fire chief. The fire marshal supervises all fire inspectors and investigators. The fire marshal may inspect all premises and cause the removal or abatement of fire and life safety hazards.
	Subd. 3. Keeping of equipment. The fire chief has control over all of the equipment and apparatus maintained by the department and is responsible for the care and condition of equipment. The fire chief is responsible for the care of the fire stations.
	Subd. 4. Record of fires. The fire chief must keep a complete record of all fires in a convenient form. The information must also be reported to the office of the state fire marshal at least annually.

321.09. Fire department constitution and bylaws. Any and all previous fire department constitutions or bylaws are repealed.
