Deferment of special assessments (Added, Ord. No. 2004-05)
335.01. Deferment of assessments. 
	Subdivision 1. Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, sections 435.193 to 435.195, as amended. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. Standard for deferment. At its discretion, the city may defer the payment of a special assessment if all of the following conditions applicable to the respective deferment category are present: (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec. 1)
		 a) the property is one acre or less and is homestead property of the owner;
		 b) the owner is:
			1) 65 years of age or older, or
			2) totally and permanently disabled with income which does not exceed the limits in subdivision 
			3 a); or (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec. 1)
			3) a person who is a member of the Minnesota National Guard or other military reserves who is ordered into active military service, as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 190.05, subdivision 5b or 5c, as amended, as stated in the person's military orders; (Added, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec. 1)
			4) for all deferment categories stated above in subdivisions 2 b) 1) – 3), payment of the assessment would be a hardship for the property owner. (Added, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. Hardship based on income and military service defined. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec.1) 
		a) A hardship exists under subdivision 2 b) 2) for a deferment when the owner's gross income is at or below the low income standards, adjusted for family size, applicable in the year of application under the federal section 8 program, as determined by the regulations of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. (Amended, Ord. No. 2010- 2, Sec. 1)
	b) A hardship exists under subdivision 2 b) 3) for a military service deferment when there is a difficulty for the owner/service member in making the payments when due as a result of being called into active military service. The difficulty may include but not be limited to financial difficulties for the service member or the member's family while the member is on active duty or training for active duty, priority of requirements of military duty, problems with transacting financial matters from a military station for the service member or for the member's family while the member is at a military station, or a combination of these or other difficulties which make timely payment of the special assessment more difficult. The owner/service member on active duty shall provide the city with copies of orders evidencing the commencement and termination of the active duty status in order to be eligible for the deferment. (Added, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec. 1)

335.03. Administration of deferment program. 
	Subdivision 1. Application. An application for a deferment must:
		 a) be submitted to the city by November 15;
		 b) include information and any supplementary documentation necessary to establish and verify the following:
		 1) the legal description and property identification number;
		 2) the street address;
		 3) that the property is homestead property of one acre or less;
		 4) the description of the improvement;
		 5) the name of the homestead owner-occupant;
		 6) that the property owner either is 
			(i) 65 years of age or older, or 
			(ii) retired because of permanent and total disability as defined in section 335.01, subdivision 2; and
		7) that paying the special assessment on the ordinary schedule constitutes a hardship as defined in this section.
	Subd. 2. Interest accrual. Simple interest at the rate specified for the special assessment for the local improvement will accrue for the term of the assessment on any principal of the special assessment that is deferred. 

335.05. Termination of deferment. The option to defer the payment of special assessments will terminate and all amounts accumulated, plus applicable interest, will become due upon the occurrence of any of the following events:
	a) the death of the owner, provided that the spouse is otherwise not eligible for the benefits;
	b) the sale, transfer or subdivision of the property or any part thereof;
	c) if the property should for any reason lose its homestead status; (Amended, Ord. No.2010-2, Sec. 1)
	d) if the financial or disability status of the owner should change to the extent that the owner would no longer qualify for the deferment under this section; or (Amended, Ord. No. 2010-2, Sec. 1)
	e) in the case of a military service deferment under subdivision 2 b) 3), the deferment shallterminate 90 days after the release of the service member from active duty. (Added, Ord. No. 2010-2, Section 1)
