Disposition of unclaimed property
325.01. Unclaimed property; purpose and statutory authority. This section has been enacted to provide for the custody and disposal of property other than motor vehicles coming into the possession of the city in the course of municipal operations and remaining unclaimed by the owner. It has been adopted pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, section 471.195.

325.02. The city manager shall maintain a complete file of unclaimed property which shall contain the following information:
	 a) a description of the property;
	 b) the finder of the property;
	 c) the time and place of the finding;
	 d) the disposition of the property; and
	 e) any other information deemed pertinent by the city manager. (Added, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 1)

325.03. Method of disposition. 
	Subdivision 1. Property that has come into the possession of the city and has remained unclaimed by its owner for a period of 60 days or more shall be disposed of by the city by sale to the highest bidder at public auction. The public auction shall be conducted under the direction of the city manager, following published notice in the official newspaper at least ten days in advance of the sale. The published notice shall state the place and time of such sale, and shall contain a general description of the property to be sold. In lieu of a public auction, any of the unclaimed property may be appropriated to the city for its use upon approval of the appropriation by the city council. In the event that any unclaimed property that is put up for sale at the auction and is not sold, the city manager shall submit a report to the city council advising the city council of the items unsold. The city council shall then make a disposition of the unsold items as it deems in the best interest of the city, including, but not limited to, delivering the items to any nonprofit organization. (Amended, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 2; Ord. 2007-07, Sec. 1) 
	Subd. 2. Notwithstanding any other procedural requirement of this section, once the property described in subdivision 1 above has remained unclaimed by its owner for a period of 60 days or more, the city may contract to dispose of such unclaimed property using an electronic selling process in which purchasers compete to make offers to purchase the surplus property at the highest price in an open and interactive environment. (Added, Ord. 2007-07, Sec. 1)

325.05. (Repealed, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 3)

325.06. Reports on property sold. Upon the completion of any sale under section 325.03, the city manager shall maintain a list of the following: 
	a) a copy of the published notice of sale;
	b) a list of property sold;
	c) the amount for which each item of property was sold;
	d) the name of the individual to whom each item of property was sold;
	e) a list of property that was put up for sale at the auction that was not sold; and
	f) a statement of the expenses of the sale. (Added, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 4)

325.07. Items which may be destroyed. Items of personal property having nuisance potential, such as firearms, dangerous weapons, liquor and narcotics, may be destroyed upon order of the city manager. A list of items so destroyed and the pertinent facts of the disposal must be maintained for a period of at least six
years. (Amended, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 5)

325.09. Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale must be deposited in the general fund of the city, subject to the right of the former owner to payment of the sale price from such fund upon application and satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale. In the event that the property has already been sold, the former owner shall be entitled to receive the actual sale price of the property, except that there shall be deducted from the sale price any expenses incurred by the city in connection with the retention, storage and/or sale of the property. (Amended, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 6)

325.11. Property held as evidence. When any law enforcement officer seizes, with or without consent, any property, the property shall be safely kept as directed by the court, so long as may be necessary for the purpose of being produced as evidence in any trial or court proceedings. After the trial or court proceedings have been completed, the property shall, unless otherwise subject to lawful detention, be returned to the owner, or returned to such other persons as may be entitled to the possession of the property. If the owner cannot be located or does not want the property returned to them, or the court directs disposal of the property by the city, it may be sold by the city at auction pursuant to the procedure set forth in section 325.03 of this section. (Added, Ord. 2006-03, Sec. 7)

325.13. Unclaimed money. Any person finding money within the city shall deliver it personally to the police department to be held for a period of 90 days in order to determine the rightful owner. If no claim is made by the owner or if the owner cannot be located, the money shall be returned to the finder 90 days after delivery to the police department. If a party or parties claim ownership, the money shall be held until determination by the chief of police has been made whether any of the parties is the rightful owner. If none of the parties are the rightful owner, and no other claims have been made, the finder shall receive the money 90 days after delivery to the police department, or as soon as a determination has been made by the chief of police that no owner has been found. The police department shall keep a record of the amount of money found and the name, address and phone number of the finder. Upon delivery of the money to the finder as provided in this subdivision, the city shall have no further interest or obligation with respect to the money. The city shall, however, provide the name and address of the finder and the location of the money to any individual making a satisfactory claim and proof of ownership subsequent to the delivery of the money to the finder. Any money found by a city employee on public property shall be delivered to the police department to be held for a period of 90 days in order to determine the rightful owner. If no claim is made by the owner or if the owner cannot be located, the money shall be deposited in the general fund of the city 90 days after delivery to the police department. (Added, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 8)

325.15. Exception. This section shall not apply to abandoned motor vehicles or to property forfeited to the city pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 169A.63, 609.531 through 609.5319. (Added, Ord. 2006-3, Sec. 9) 
