Domestic Partnership Registration (Added, Ord. No. 2011-10)
340.01. Purpose. The city of Crystal authorizes and establishes a voluntary program of registration of domestic partners. The domestic partner registry is a means by which unmarried, committed couples who reside or work in Crystal and who share a life and home together may document their relationship. Crystal’s domestic partnership ordinance is a city ordinance and does not create rights, privileges, benefits or responsibilities which are available to married couples under state or federal law, or rights, privileges, benefits or responsibilities which are not legally available to unmarried couples under state or federal law.

340.02. Definitions. 
	Subdivision. 1. The following words and phrases used in this Code have the meanings given in this section. 
	Subd. 2. “Domestic Partner” means any two adults who meet all the following:
		a. Are not related by blood closer than permitted under marriage laws of the state.
		b. Are not married under that laws of this state.
		c. Are competent to enter into a contract.
		d. Are jointly responsible to each other for the necessities of life.
		e. Are committed to one another to the same extent as married persons are to each other, except for the traditional marital status and solemnities.
		f. Do not have any other domestic partner(s).
		g. Are both at least 18 years of age. 
		h. At least one of whom resides in or is employed in Crystal.
	Subd. 3. “Domestic Partnership” includes, upon production of valid, government-issued documentation, in addition to domestic partnerships registered with the city of Crystal, and regardless of whether partners in either circumstance have sought further registration with the city of Crystal:
		a. Any person who has a currently-registered domestic partnership with a governmental body pursuant to state, local or other law authorizing such registration. The term domestic partnership shall be construed liberally to include unions, regardless of title, in which two individuals are committed to one another as married persons are traditionally committed, except for the traditional marital status and solemnities.
		b. Marriages that would be legally recognized as a contract of lawful marriage in another local, state or foreign jurisdiction, but for the operation of Minnesota law.
	Sub. 4. “Health Care Facility” means a medical facility such as a hospital, sanitarium, a nursing home or similar facility licensed under Minnesota law.

340.03. Registration of Domestic Partnerships. 
	Subdivision 1. Application. The city clerk shall accept an application in a form provided by the city to register domestic partners who state in such application that they meet the definition of domestic partners.
	Subd. 2. Application Fee. The city clerk shall charge an application fee for the registration of domestic partners and shall charge a fee for providing certified copies of registrations, amendments, or notices of termination. The fees required by this subsection shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council and set forth in Appendix IV to this code.
	Subd. 3. Certificate. The city clerk shall provide each domestic partner with a registration certificate.
	Subd. 4. This application and certificate may be used as evidence of the existence of a domestic partner relationship.
	Subd. 5. Records. The city clerk shall keep a record of all registrations of domestic partnership, amendments to registrations and notices of termination. The records shall be maintained so that amendments and notices of termination are filed with the registration of domestic partnership to which they pertain.
	Subd. 6. Data. The application and amendments thereto, the registration certificate, and termination notices shall constitute government data and will be subject to disclosure pursuant to the terms of the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act. 

340.04. Amendments. The city clerk may accept amendments for filing from persons who have domestic partnership registrations on file, except amendments that would replace one of the registered partners with another individual.

340.05 Termination of Domestic Partnership. Domestic partnership registration terminates when the earliest of the following occurs:
	a. One of the partners dies; or
	b. Forty-five days after one partner: 
		1) sends the other partner written notice, on a form provided by the city, that he or she is terminating the partnership; and 
		2) files the notice of termination and an affidavit of service of the notice on the other partner with the city clerk.

340.06. Benefits. 
	Subdivision 1. This section does not create any rights, privileges, or responsibilities for domestic partners other than those expressly provided in this section.
	Subd. 2. City Fees for Recreational Programs and General Services. If the city offers a family fee, family membership or family registration for any city-provided recreation program or service available to residents or the general public, domestic partners are entitled to the same family fee, family membership or family registration.
	Subd. 3. Visitation in health care facilities. If a patient has not designated permitted or restricted visitors, or does not have a health care directive as defined in Minnesota Statutes Chapter 145 C, as amended, a health care facility shall allow the patient’s domestic partner, the children of the patient’s domestic partner, or the domestic partner of the patient’s parent or child to visit the patient. Such visitation rights shall be consistent with the health care facility’s visitation policy pertaining to other family members. A health care facility may reasonably determine based on the patient’s medical condition not to allow visitors. The health care facility may deny visitation upon the reasonable determination that the presence of a particular visitor would endanger the health or safety of a patient or patients, or would endanger the primary operations of the facility.
	Subd. 4. Other code provisions. Domestic partners shall be entitled to rights or benefits as expressly provided by this code for registered domestic partners. 
