Employee review board
315.01. Board established. The employee review board is established. The board has the powers and duties set out in this section. The board is established pursuant to sections 2.02 and 6.07 of the charter.

315.03. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section, the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Appendix V" means the rules and regulations adopted by section 310 of this code.
	Subd. 3. "Board" means the employee review board.
	Subd. 4. "Grievance" means a dispute or disagreement as to the interpretation or application of any term or terms of appendix V.
	Subd. 5. "Employee" means a city employee other than the city manager, the assistant city manager, or a department head: the term does not include an employee who is a member of a certified appropriate bargaining unit that has entered into a collective bargaining agreement with an employee organization pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, chapter 179A.
	
315.05. Board; membership. 
	Subdivision 1. Appointment. The board consists of three regular members and two alternate members. Members are appointed by the council from a list of names recommended by the city manager.
	Subd. 2. Terms. Members of the board serve for a term of three years and until their respective successors are appointed and qualify for office. Of the regular members initially appointed, one is appointed for a term of one year, one is appointed for a term of two years, and one is appointed for a term of three years. Alternate members are appointed for three-year terms. The term of a member expires on December 31 of the final year of a term. Vacancies on the board are filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments are made. Members may be appointed for consecutive terms.
	Subd. 3. Qualifications. Members of the board must be residents of the city. In making appointment, the manager and council must give consideration to persons who are knowledgeable and experienced in the field of dispute resolution including arbitration and mediation. An officer or employee of the city may not be appointed to the board or serve on the board. A member of the employee review board may apply and be appointed to any other board or commission at the discretion of the city council without such appointment creating a vacancy on the employee review board. A person who has been an elected officer or employee of the city may not be appointed to the board until one year has elapsed since termination of that service or employment. (Amended, Ord. 2006-4, Sec. 2)
	
315.07. Organization; meetings. The board must adopt by-laws governing the conduct of its meetings, specifying its officers, and setting its meeting schedule. The by-laws of the board are not effective until approved by the city council. 

315.09. Staffing; financing. The city manager must provide appropriate staff support including legal assistance to the board from existing city personnel. Members of the board serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses in accordance with normal city policy regarding such reimbursement for other boards and commissions of the city.

315.11. Grievances; procedures. 
	Subdivision 1. Submission. An employee may submit a grievance to the board subject to the provisions of this subsection.
	Subd. 2. Exhaustion of remedies. An employee may not submit a grievance to the board until the steps of the grievance procedure established by appendix V have been completed and within ten days of that completion. The grievance procedure provided in appendix V is complete on the date that the city manager gives written notice of the manager's final determination of the grievance. The board must provide in its bylaws for the form and details of a grievance submission.
	Subd. 3. Review; discretion. The board must promptly review the grievance submission. The board may decline to review a grievance. The board's decision not to review a grievance is final.
	Subd. 4. Hearing. If the board decides to review a grievance it may conduct hearings on the matter in the manner set forth in its by-laws. The by-laws must provide for written notice of its hearings to the city manager and the employee. The city manager must supply the board with information reasonably requested by the board. The employee may be represented by counsel at a hearing. If the manager's final determination of the grievance is not confirmed by the board, the reasonable costs, including attorney's fees, incurred by the employee in the proceedings must be paid by the city. If the manager's final determination of the grievance is confirmed by the board the employee's costs, including attorneys' fees, will not be paid by the city.  Subd. 5. Decisions. Upon completion of hearings on a grievance the board must issue a written order stating its decision, the reasons for the decision, and the findings on which the decision is based. The order may confirm the decision of the city manager or modify it in any respect. The board must send a copy of the order to the employee and to the city manager. The decision of the board is final. 

	315.13. Information; publication. The city manager is directed to take appropriate steps to fully inform employees of the existence and functions of the board. A notice describing the board and its functions must be continually posted in conspicuous places in the workplace.
