Section 2010 - Nuisances
2010.01. Nuisances. 
	Subdivision 1. Defined. The following acts are declared a public nuisance:
		a) Engaging in a business or activity that is dangerous, hurtful, unwholesome, offensive or unhealthy to the neighborhood, or that constitutes an annoyance to the persons in the neighborhood, or is detrimental to the property in the neighborhood;
		b) Permitting, suffering or maintaining, or failing to remove offensive, nauseous, hurtful, dangerous, unhealthy conditions resulting from a failure to properly dispose of garbage, sewage, waste, debris or any other unwholesome or offensive substance, liquid or thing, upon one's premises, or to drop, discharge, pass, deposit or otherwise deliver the same upon the premises of another or public property;
		c) Constructing, maintaining, permitting or allowing upon one's property any billboard, sign, poster, or advertisement, or to post, publish, promulgate, broadcast, display, issue or circulate insulting, profane or abusive emblem, sign, or device, or blasphemous written or printed statement, calculated or such as is likely to cause a breach of the peace;
		d) Displaying, circulating, issuing or publishing slanderous or obscene, immoral, or lewd pictures, posters, literature, writings, drawings or oral statements.
	Subd. 2. Abatement. A nuisance defined herein may be abated after 48 hours notice to remove the same by any officer of the city. The notice describing the property upon which the nuisance is situated and the nature of the nuisance to be abated must be given to the owner or occupant of the property. If the notice cannot be delivered to the owner or occupant of the property the notice must be published in a local newspaper, and must state that the nuisance must be abated within a designated time of not less than 60 hours from the time of publication.
	Subd. 3. Penalty. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor. The imposition of one penalty for any violation of this section does not excuse the violation, or permit it to continue. Each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained constitutes a separate offense.

2010.03. Noise in residential areas. It is unlawful to congregate because of or participate in a party or gathering of people from which noise emanates of a sufficient volume so as to disturb the peace, quiet or repose of persons residing in any residential area. It is unlawful to visit or remain within any residential dwelling unit wherein such party or gathering is taking place except for persons who have gone there for the sole purpose of abating the disturbance. (Amended, Ord. No. 97-8, Sec. 3)

2010.05. It is unlawful to do the following:
	a) keep a disorderly house or place of public resort in such a manner that the peace, comfort or decency of a neighborhood is habitually disturbed;
	b) being the owner or in control of the premises, to intentionally permit them to be so used; or
	c) keep, permit or be present in a disorderly house or place of public resort kept for illegal purposes, including, but not limited to, prostitution, illegal gambling, illegal sale or consumption of intoxicating beer or illegal sale or use of controlled substances. (Added, Ord. No. 97-8, Sec. 2)
