Section 2020 - Nuisances; shade tree disease control
2020.01. Declaration of policy. The city council has determined that the health of the shade trees within the city limits is threatened by shade tree diseases. It has further determined that the loss of shade trees growing upon public and private property would substantially depreciate the value of property within the city and impair the safety, good order, general welfare and convenience of the public. It is the intention of the council to control and prevent the spread of these diseases, and this section is enacted for that purpose, and to conform to the policies and procedures embodied in Minnesota Statutes, section 18.023, section 66 and rules promulgated thereunder.

2020.03. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. The terms defined in this section have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Shade tree" means an oak or elm tree situated in the city of Crystal.
	Subd. 3. "Shade tree disease" means Dutch elm disease caused by ceratocystis ulmi, or oak wilt disease caused by ceratocystis fagaceorum.
	Subd. 4. "Commissioner" means the commissioner of the state department of agriculture.
	Subd. 5. "Tree inspector" or "inspector" means a person having the necessary qualifications to conduct a shade tree program and who is so certified by the commissioner.
	Subd. 6. "Disease control area" means the city of Crystal.
	Subd. 7. "Shade tree control program" or "program" means a program developed by the city to combat shade tree disease in accordance with rules promulgated by the commissioner.

2020.05. Tree inspector. 
	Subdivision 1. Position created. The powers and duties of the city tree inspector as set forth in this section are hereby conferred upon the city manager. The manager may designate a member of the administrative staff to perform the duties of tree inspector.
	Subd. 2. Duties of tree inspector. It is the duty of the tree inspector to coordinate, under the direction and control of the council, all activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of shade tree disease. The inspector must recommend to the council the details of a program for the control of shade tree disease, and perform the duties incident to such a program adopted by the council.

2020.07. Shade tree disease program. It is the intention of the city council to conduct a program of shade tree control pursuant to the authority granted by Minnesota Statutes, section 18.023. This program is directed specifically at the control and elimination of shade tree diseases and is undertaken at the recommendation of the commissioner of agriculture, and in conformance with rules promulgated by the commissioner. The city tree inspector acts as coordinator between the commissioner of agriculture and the council in the conduct of this program.

2020.09. Shade tree diseases. 
	Subdivision 1. Nuisances declared. The following things are public nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
		a) Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus ceratocystis ulmi (buisman) moreau or which harbors any of the elm bark beetles scolytus multistriatus (eichh.) or hyluigopinus rufipes (marsh).
		b) Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including legs, branches, stumps, firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide.
		c) Any living or standing northern red oak, northern pine oak, black oak or scarlet oak, or part thereof infected to any degree with oak wilt disease.
	Subd. 2. Abatement. It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance as defined in subdivision 1 to remain on premises owned or controlled by that person within the city. Such nuisances may be abated in the manner prescribed by this section.

2020.11. Inspection and investigation. 
	Subdivision 1. Annual inspection. The tree inspector must inspect all premises and places within the city as often as practicable to determine whether any condition described in subsection 2020.09 exists thereon. The inspector must investigate all reported incidents of infestation by Dutch elm fungus, elm bark beetles or oak wilt.
	Subd. 2. Entry on private premises. The tree inspector may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of the duties of the inspector under this section. Such inspections must be preceded by two days' written notice to the owner of said private property, unless such notice is waived in writing by the owner.
	Subd. 3. Diagnosis. The tree inspector must, upon finding conditions indicating shade tree disease infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens or samples to the commissioner of agriculture for analysis, or take such other steps for diagnosis as may be provided by the commissioner by rule. Except as provided in subsection 2020.13 no action to remove infected trees or wood must be taken until positive diagnosis of the disease has been made.

2020.13. Abatement of shade tree disease nuisances. In abating the nuisances defined in this section, the tree inspector must cause the infected tree or wood to be sprayed, removed, burned, or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of disease. Such abatement procedures must be carried out in accordance with current technical and expert opinions and procedures as may be established by the commissioner of agriculture.

2020.15. Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood. 
	Subdivision 1. Findings. Whenever the tree inspector finds with reasonable certainty that the infestation defined in subsection 2020.07 exists in any tree or wood in any public or private place in the city, the inspector must proceed as follows:
		a) If the inspector finds that the danger of infestation of other trees is not imminent because of dormancy, the inspector must make a written report of his findings to the council which must proceed by (i) abating the nuisance as a public improvement under Minnesota Statutes, chapter 429, or (ii) abating the nuisance as provided in subdivision 2 of this subsection.
		b) If the inspector finds that danger of infestation of other trees is imminent, the inspector must notify the abutting property owner by certified mail that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not less than five days from the date of mailing of such notice. The inspector must immediately report such action to the council, and after the expiration of the time limited by the notice the inspector may abate the nuisance.
	Subd. 2. Notice; hearing. Upon receipt of the inspector's report required by Subdivision 1 a), the council may by resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on such resolution, the council must publish notice of its intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. The notice must be mailed to affected property owners and published once no less than one week prior to such meeting. The notice must state the time and place of the meeting, the streets affected, action proposed, and the estimated cost of the abatement, and the proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment thereof, the council must hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The council may thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with such modification as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work by day labor or by contract.
	Subd. 3. Records. The inspector must keep a record of the costs of abatements ordered under this subsection and report monthly to the city clerk work done for which assessments are to be made stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to each.
	Subd. 4. Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the clerk must list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a special assessment under Minnesota Statutes, section 429.101 and other pertinent statutes for certification to the county auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.

2020.17. Tree inspector; program. The tree inspector must conduct the shade tree disease control program in accordance with the rules and regulations of the commissioner embodied in AGR 101-120 "shade tree disease control" and subsequent amendments thereto.

2020.19. Transporting elm wood prohibited. 
	Subdivision 1. It is unlawful to transport within the city any bark-bearing elm wood without having obtained a permit from the tree inspector. The inspector will grant such permits only when the purposes of this section will be served thereby.
	
2020.21. Interference prohibited. It is unlawful to prevent, delay or interfere with the inspector while engaged in the performance of the duties imposed by this section.
