2005.01. Disorderly conduct. The following acts are disorderly conduct:
	a) Lurking, lying in wait, or concealment in a building, yard or street in the city with intent to commit a crime or misdemeanor therein;
	b) Wilfully disturbing a meeting not unlawful in its character, or the peace and quiet of a family or neighborhood;
	c) Wilfully and lewdly exposing one's person or one's private parts, or procuring another to so expose oneself, open and gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or an act of public indecency;
	d) Using profane, vulgar or indecent language in or about a public building, store, place of public entertainment, or place of business, or on streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city so as to be audible and offensive;
	e) Appearing upon a public street or other public place in an intoxicated condition or drinking intoxicating liquor on a street or a vehicle on a public street;
	f) Unlawfully striking or in an unlawful manner offering to or doing bodily harm to another person or unlawfully making an attempt to apply any degree of force or violence to the person of another, or in a violent, rude, angry or insolent manner touch or lay hands upon the person of another;
	g) Wilfully making a false report to a police officer in the performance of the officer's duties. (Amended, Ord. No. 95-17, Sec. 1)

2005.03. Resisting a public officer. It is unlawful to wilfully resist, delay or obstruct a public officer in discharging or attempting to discharge a duty of the officer's office.

2005.05. False statements. It is unlawful to make a false statement in an application for a permit or license from the city.

2005.07. Swimming in Twin Lakes. It is unlawful to swim or bathe in Twin Lakes or in a creek or pond within the limits of the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.

2005.09. Loitering. 
	Subdivision 1. Prohibited. It is unlawful to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either alone or in consort with others in a public place in such manner as to:
		a) Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or any building generally open to public patronage, by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
		b) Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or any building generally open to public patronage, any act or thing which is an obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any business lawfully conducted by any one in or upon or facing or fronting on any such public street, public sidewalk or any other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress, and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
	Subd. 2. Police order. If a person causes or commits a condition enumerated in subdivision 1, a police officer or any law enforcement officer may order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to move on or disperse. A person who fails or refuses to obey such orders is guilty of a violation of this section.

2005.11. Fire alarm system and false alarms. It is unlawful to tamper with or in any way interfere with any element of any fire alarm system within the city. It is unlawful to give, or cause to be given, any alarm of fire or other emergency condition when no fire or emergency condition exists.

2005.13. Obstruction of fire hydrants. It is unlawful to park a vehicle in such a way as to obstruct a fire hydrant. The stopping or parking of a vehicle within ten feet of a fire hydrant is an obstruction of the hydrant and a violation of this subsection.

2005.15. Liquor and beer in parks. It is unlawful to bring into, possess, barter, give away or consume any intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating malt beverages in any public park or any vehicle parking area immediately adjoining such park; provided, however, that this prohibition does not apply to any special permit issued by the city council under the provisions of subsection 1215.15 of this code relating to non-intoxicating malt liquor.

2005.17. Liquor and beer in public places. 
	Subdivision 1. Public ways. It is unlawful to consume, barter, or give intoxicating beverages or malt beverages in or upon a public street, avenue, boulevard, alley or other public way, whether in a vehicle or not, in the city.
	Subd. 2. Parking areas. It is unlawful to consume, barter or give any intoxicating beverages or non-intoxicating malt beverages in or upon a parking area open to the public whether in a vehicle or not.

2005.19. Trespass; notice. 
	Subdivision 1. On premises privately owned but open to the use of the general public, it is unlawful to remain on the premises after having been requested to leave by the owner of the premises, an authorized representative of the owner, or any other person or entity entitled to possession of the premises.
	Subd. 2. Two year rule. On any property privately owned but open to the use of the general public, it is unlawful to return to the property after receipt of a written notice of trespass from the owner, an authorized representative of the owner, or any person or entity entitled to possession of the property, or law enforcement official, which notice prohibits the person from returning to the property. This prohibition is effective for two years from the date the written notice was served.
	Subd. 3. Notice. The written notice under subdivision 2 must be personally served upon the party prohibited from entering the property. An affidavit of service must be executed at the time of service. A prosecution may not be maintained under subdivision 2 unless the property owner or other complaining party can produce a copy of the notice of trespass and a signed affidavit of its service.
