Section 1220 - Entertainment in licensed premises
1220.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them:
	Subd. 2. "License" means any of the following licenses issued by the city:
		a) on sale 3.2% malt liquor, (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 17)
		b) on sale liquor, and
		c) on sale wine.
	Subd. 3. "Licensed premises" means the compact and contiguous area of real estate for which a license is issued.
	Subd. 4. "Nudity" means the showing of the post-pubertal human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering or the showing of a post-pubertal female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below a point immediately above the top of the areola, or the covered human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. For the purposes of this definition, the female breast is considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and the areola are uncovered. (Amended, Ord. No. 1996-2, Sec. 3)
	Subd. 5. "Sadomasochistic abuse" means scenes involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering or binding or other physical restraint of any such persons, in an apparent act of sexual stimulation or gratification.
	Subd. 6. "Sexual conduct" means acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or any touching of the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or female, or the breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification.
	
1220.03. Prohibited acts. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. It is unlawful for the licensee, owner, or manager of any licensed establishment to permit or allow entertainment or service involving any nudity, sadomasochistic abuse, or sexual conduct to occur in such licensed establishment.
	Subd. 2. Revocation and suspension. The council may suspend or revoke a license for violation of this section. A suspension or revocation does not take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to this code. This section does not preclude other civil remedies, including injunctive relief, pending the outcome of the hearing.
