Section 1200 - Intoxicating liquor
1200.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section, the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Intoxicating liquor" and "liquor" mean ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous and malt liquors containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
	Subd. 3. "Sale" and "sell" and "sold" mean all barters, and all manners or means, of furnishing intoxicating liquor and including such furnishing in violation or evasion of law. Subd. 4. "On sale" means the sale of liquor by the glass for consumption on the premises only. 
	Subd. 5. "Off sale" means the sale of liquor in original package in retail stores for consumption off or away from the premises where sold. 
	Subd. 6. "Package" or "original package" means any container or receptacle holding liquor, which container or receptacle is corked or sealed. 
	Subd. 7. "Hotel" means any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager, where in consideration of payment therefor food or lodging are regularly furnished to transients and which maintains for the use of its guests not less than ten guest rooms, with bedding and other suitable and necessary furnishings in each room, and which is provided with a suitable lobby, desk and office for registration of its guests, on the ground floor, and which employs an adequate staff to provide suitable and usual service, and which maintains under the same management and control as the rest of the establishment and as an integral part thereof a dining room with appropriate facilities for seating not less than 30 guests at one time, where the general public is, in consideration of payment therefor, served with meals at tables.
	Subd. 8. "Restaurant" means any establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a proprietor or manager, having appropriate facilities for the serving of meals to not less than 30 guests at one time and where meals are regularly furnished at tables to the general public and which employs an adequate staff to provide the usual and suitable service to its guests, and the principal part of the business of which is the serving of foods.
	Subd. 9. "Exclusive liquor store" means an on sale or off sale or combination on sale or off sale establishment used exclusively for the sale of intoxicating liquor at retail and under the control of an individual owner or manager and as an incident thereof may also sell cigars, cigarettes, ice, all forms of tobacco, non-intoxicating malt beverages, and soft drinks at retail. An exclusive liquor store includes an on sale or combination on sale and off sale establishment operating a restaurant or selling food for consumption on the premises.
	Subd. 10. "Club" means any corporation duly organized under the laws of the state of Minnesota for civic, fraternal, social or business purposes or for intellectual improvements or for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans organization, which must have more than 50 members, and which must for more than a year have owned, hired or leased a building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable accommodation of its members and whose affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or other similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose, none of whose members, officers, agents or employees are paid directly or indirectly any compensation by way of profit from the distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the club, or to its guests, beyond the amount of such reasonable salary or wages as may be fixed and voted each year by the directors or other governing body. The fact that dancing is conducted in a hotel or restaurant must not make such place ineligible to receive a license hereunder, if such dance is incidental to the regular services of the hotel or restaurant.
	Subd. 11. "Sunday sale" means the sale of liquor by the glass for consumption on the premises, in conjunction with the serving of food by the licensee, pursuant to a special license therefor issued by the city as authorized by state law.
	Subd. 12. For purposes of this section, the term "minor" means a person under the age specified in Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503.
	Subd. 13. "On sale wine" means the sale of wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume in premises licensed under this section which meet the qualifications of Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.404, subdivision 5 and this section; an "on sale wine" license permits the sale of wine for consumption on the licensed premises only, in conjunction with the sale of food. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 14. “Licensed premises” means the premises, building, establishment or location within a building which is the area where the city permits the sale of intoxicating liquor pursuant to the license required by section 1200.03 of this code. (Added, Ord. No. 2007-12, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 15. “Smoking area” means a compact and contiguous exterior area connected to the licensed premises designated by the license and approved by the city, where the licensee is authorized to permit its patrons to smoke, and where the patron is permitted to consume intoxicating liquor previously purchased and/or delivered to the patron in the licensed premises. Intoxicating liquor, food, or nonintoxicating beverages may not be served or delivered to patrons in the smoking area by employees of licensee. The licensee must file a specific written request in the initial application for, or in an amendment to, the liquor license for permission to establish a smoking area addressing conditions outlined as follows:
		a) Fencing or screening
		b) Controlled access (entrance/exit obtained from inside building; emergency exit provision)
		c) Underage access prevention
		d) Size and type of area (dimensions; patio/deck/fenced area)
		e) Placement and aesthetics
		f) Rubbish
		g) Security and supervision
		h) Lighting and illumination
		i) Insurance
		j) Signage
			The licensee must provide an operations plan and site plan with the application of the proposed smoking area to the city clerk for staff review and council approval. The smoking area must meet all zoning, building, and fire codes of the city. (Added, Ord. No. 2007-12, Sec. 2) 1200.03. License required. It is unlawful to sell liquor or keep it for sale without first obtaining a license therefor from the city and complying with the laws of the state of Minnesota, the regulations promulgated by the liquor control commissioner, appropriate regulations and statutes of the United States of America, and this section.

1200.05. Qualifications of applicant. A license may not be issued to a person other than a citizen of the United States who is of good moral character and repute, nor to any person who within five years prior to the application for such license has been convicted of a wilful violation of any law of the United States, or the state of Minnesota, or any local ordinance, with regard to the manufacture, sale, possession for sale or distribution of intoxicating liquor, nor to a person whose license under this section has been revoked for a wilful violation of any such laws or ordinances nor to a minor. A false material statement made in the application is grounds for revocation of the license.

1200.07. License procedure. 
	Subdivision 1. Application. A person desiring a liquor license from the city must file with the city clerk a verified written application in the form prescribed by the liquor control commissioner of the state of Minnesota together with other additional information required by the city.
	Subd. 2. Contents. An application form provided by the city clerk must be completed by every applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing license. Every new applicant must provide all the following information: (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 10)
		a) If the applicant is a natural person:
			1) The name, place and date of birth, street resident address, and phone number of applicant.
			2) Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or resident alien.
			3) Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names used and information concerning dates and places used.
			4) The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a designation, name, or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified copy of the certificate as required by Minnesota Statutes, Section 333.01 as it may be amended.
			5) The street address at which the applicant has lived during the preceding five years.
			6) The type, name and location of every business or occupation in which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any, for the proceeding five years.
			7) Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time, place, and offense of all such convictions.
			8) The physical description of the applicant. 
			9) Applicant’s current personal financial statement and true copies of the applicant’s federal and state tax returns for the two years prior to application.
			10) If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning each of them required in a) through d) of subdivision 2 of subsection 1200.07.
		b) If the applicant is a partnership: 
			1) The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners and all information concerning each general partner required in subdivision 1 of this section.
			2) The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each partner in the licensed business. 
			3) A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a trade name pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 333.01, as it may be amended, a certified copy of such certificate must be attached to the application.
			4) A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for partnership for the two years prior to application.
			5) If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning each of them required in a) through d) of subdivision 2 of subsection 1200.07.
		c) If the applicant is a corporation or other organization: 
			1) The name of the corporation or business form, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation.
			2) A true copy of the Certificate of Incorporation, Articles of Incorporation or Association Agreement, and By-laws shall be attached to the application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a Certificate of Authority as required by Minnesota Statutes, section 303.06, as it may be amended, must be attached. Any proposed change in either the articles or the by-laws of the corporation must be reported to the city clerk 14 days prior to the date such change is to be adopted by the corporation. In the case of a corporate application the application must also describe fully the relationship of the corporation to any other corporation including the name, business address, state of incorporation, names of stockholders, directors and officers thereof as provided hereafter, but in the case of publicly held corporations the city manager may accept disclosure documents required by the Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States of America in lieu of such information.
			3) The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor, or agent required in a) through d) of subdivision 2 of subsection 1200.07.
			4) A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess of 5% in such organization or business form or who are officers of the corporation or business form and all information concerning said persons required in subdivision 1 above. This subdivision c), however, shall not apply to a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a stock exchange and is applying for a license to be owned and operated by it. 
		d) For all applicants:
			1) Whether the applicant holds a business license from any other governmental unit.
			2) Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked or suspended, a business license from any other governmental unit.
			3) The location of the business premises.
			4) If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and complete copy of the executed lease.
			5) The legal description of the premises to be licensed.
			6) Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid.
			7) Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must be accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed premises to be licensed.
			8) Such other information as the city council or issuing authority may require.
	Subd. 3. Manager. When a licensee places a manager in charge of a business, or if the named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes, the licensee must complete and submit the appropriate application within 14 days. The application must include all appropriate information required in this section. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 10)
		a) Upon completion of an investigation of a new manager, the licensee must pay an amount equal to the cost of the investigation to assure compliance with this chapter. If the investigation process is conducted solely within the state of Minnesota, the fee shall be $500.00. If the investigation is conducted outside the state of Minnesota, the issuing authority may recover the actual investigation costs not exceeding $10,000.00.
	Subd. 4. Application execution. All applications for a license under this chapter must be signed and certified by the applicant. If the application is that of a natural person, it must be signed and certified by such person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that of an unincorporated association, by the manager or managing officer thereof. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 10)
	Subd. 5 Insurance requirements; financial responsibility.
		a) Prior to the issuance of a license the applicant must file with the city clerk satisfactory evidence of adequate insurance coverage which also must meet the conditions specified in Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.409, as amended. The city must be named as an additional insured on the insurance policy or policies. The licensee must provide evidence of coverage in the form of a certificate of insurance complying with the most recent edition of the applicable ACORD forms (or similar insurance service organization forms), as approved by the city manager or designee. The licensee shall notify and identify the city to its insurance carrier(s) and require its insurance carrier(s) to provide the statutory cancellation notice if the policy is cancelled, not renewed or materially changed. Operation of a business licensed under this section without having on-going evidence on file with the city of the insurance required by this subdivision is grounds for revocation or suspension of the license.
		b) Prior to the issuance of a license the applicant must file with the city clerk satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" shall be shown by a certification under oath that the property taxes, public utility bills, and all state and federal taxes or other governmental obligations or claims concerning the business entity applying for the license are current, and that no notice of delinquency or default has been issued, or if any of the financial obligations stated in this subsection are delinquent or in default, that any such delinquency or default is subject to a payment plan or other agreement approved by the applicable governmental entity. "Satisfactory evidence of financial responsibility" as required by this subsection shall in addition be shown by any individual applicant and all individual owners and/or shareholders of the business entity. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-5; Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec.10))

1200.09. Investigation of license applicants. 
	Subdivision 1. Duties of chief of police. A new or renewal application for a license to sell intoxicating liquor will be referred to the chief of police for a CCH Investigation as authorized by section 311 of the city code, of each individual. Every individual or person having any beneficial interest in the license must be so investigated. The chief must make necessary inquiry and list all violations of federal and state law or municipal ordinance including verified complaints that occurred at the establishment being investigated while under the same ownership. The chief must report the findings and comments to the manager who must order or conduct such additional investigations as the manager deems necessary or as the council directs. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-11, Sec. 9)
	Subd. 2. Fees. Every new applicant must pay to the city treasurer the investigation fees set by appendix IV. The fees must be paid for each individual when more than one individual has a beneficial interest in the license whether a partnership, corporation or a group by whatever arrangement, to pay for the cost of investigation of each additional individual having a beneficial interest in a retail liquor license regardless of the nature and extent of such interest.

1200.11. Burden of proof. 
	Subdivision 1. Facts. The applicant or holder of a retail liquor license has the burden or proving to the council the following:
		a) That each individual having a pecuniary interest or a beneficial interest in the license is a fit person of good character and integrity.
		b) That the person applying for said license or holding the same is in fact the true proprietor thereof and that each individual having any interest in the license has in fact been listed correctly on the application, and the council has been accurately apprised at least 14 days prior to any change of any and all changes in the person holding the license regardless of whether an individual, partnership, corporation or group by whatever arrangement organized.
		c) That the premises are suitable for the type and kind of license requested.
		d) That the applicant or licensee will be responsible for its agents, employees and servants and for the conduct of its place of business and for conditions of sobriety and order therein.
		e) That the provisions of this chapter and other city ordinances, state and federal law will be complied with.
	Subd. 2. Failure to disclose. In the event that the applicant for a license, or a holder of an existing license fails to make full disclosure to the council, manager or chief or any officer of the city so designated by them, or fail to promptly produce books, records, leases or subleases or to promptly correct any deficiency in the operation or management of the premises as requested, then such refusal or noncompliance may be sufficient grounds of itself for denial of the new license, revocation or suspension of an existing license or refusal to renew an existing license.
	
1200.13. License year. Pro rata licenses may be issued to new licensees for a partial year. A period of less than one month that the license is in effect will be considered and computed as one month for the payment of the pro rata fee, except as provided in this subsection. Liquor licenses expire on the 30th day of June of each year. The council may in its discretion provide by resolution for an increase or decrease in the license bond, or the payment of an "on sale" or "on sale wine" license fee in two equal installments payable on or before December 1 and June 30 of each license year. Liquor licenses commence on July 1 of each year. Failure to pay liquor license fees or installments thereof terminates the license, and the license may be reinstated only after at least ten days' notice and hearing before the council. A change of license fee or change in bond requirement is effective immediately for new licenses, but for renewal licenses such changes are effective at the expiration of the current license year in which the increase or decrease was approved by the council.

1200.15. Types of licenses; fees. The council may issue licenses for "on sale", "off sale", "on sale wine", or "Sunday sale" or a combination thereof in such number as permitted by law and as an incident thereof the licensee may also sell, if licensed to do so by this code, food, cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, 3.2% malt beverages and soft drinks. A "Sunday sale" license must not be issued unless the applicant holds a valid "on sale" or "on sale wine" license and qualifies under the definition of "restaurant" as set forth in
subsection 1200.01 of this chapter. The holder of an “on sale wine” license issued pursuant to this section must concurrently hold an “on sale” 3.2% malt liquor license issued pursuant to section 1215 to sell 3.2% malt liquors at on sale. The holder of an “on sale wine” license who is also the holder of an “on sale” 3.2% malt liquor license may sell intoxicating malt liquors at on sale without an additional license. Holders of an “on sale” intoxicating liquor license may sell 3.2% malt liquors and wine at on sale without further license. The acceptance by the city of one-half installment payment must not be construed as a waiver on the part of the city of the whole license fee which is hereby declared to be one divisible fee. The council may issue an "on sale" liquor license to bona fide clubs in existence for 20 years which are duly incorporated for the sale to members only. Fees for licenses issued pursuant to this section are set by appendix IV. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 2) 1200.17. Annual reports. A licensee must furnish the city clerk the following information not later than 60 days prior to renewal of each retail liquor license:
	a) The name or names of all persons owning or having an interest in the licensed business including their age, occupation, residence and place of business.
	b) A list of all other liquor businesses by name and address that are located in the state of Minnesota in which such person listed in paragraph a) have an interest, and state the extent of such interest.
	
1200.19. License revocation. A license issued to a person not entitled to receive the same under this section or any law of the state of Minnesota may be revoked by the council at any time after ten days notice and public hearing in accordance with chapter X of this code.

1200.21. Corporations holding licenses. 
	Subdivision 1. Stock transfers. A corporate retail liquor licensee must report within 14 days to the city clerk prior to each and any proposed change of legal ownership or beneficial interest in any of said corporate shares of stock. The report must be in writing and list all stockholders, their age, occupation, their residence address, the number of shares held by each, whether individually or for the benefit of others. The report must include all powers of attorney for proxies granted that relate to the voting of the corporate shares of stock. The council may approve or disapprove each such proposed transfer or assignment.
	Subd. 2. Change of control. Any change in the legal ownership or beneficial interest in the shares of stock that results in a change of ownership or change of control of the corporation is hereby declared to be a transfer of a liquor license that is prohibited by this section and prior approval of the council is required. A new application, new investigation, new license fee and new processing is required. A change of partners will be deemed to be a new person requiring a new application, new investigation, new license fee and a new processing. The council will consider and vote on the matter of the change of ownership or control of the licensee as though an outsider were desiring to take out a new license. The failure to obtain such prior approval of the council or to produce books or other records in compliance with this section is grounds for automatic revocation of the corporate liquor license after notice and a public hearing.
	Subd. 3. Corporation books. The council or any officer of the city so designated by it may at any reasonable hour examine the stock, transfer records, minute books and all other business records of the corporate licensee as may appear necessary. This right is especially provided to disclose the extent of the interest of any and all persons in the licensed corporation, the ownership and voting of shares of stock of the corporation, and to determine whether or not any change of the legal ownership of, or beneficial interest in certain shares of stock by itself or together with other transfers of shares of stock has directly or indirectly resulted in a multiple ownership or in a change of control of the licensed business. Particular scrutiny must be given to proxy voting and powers of attorney to vote stock shares.
	Subd. 4. Corporate stockholder. The sale or transfer of shares of voting stock by the corporate licensee to another corporation is prohibited.
	Subd. 5. Corporation information. In the case of publicly held corporations the city manager may accept disclosure documents required by the Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States of America in lieu of or as supplemental to information required of a corporation under any provision of this section.
	
1200.23. License revocation or suspension. Upon conviction of the licensee, or of any agent or employee of said licensee, for violation of any of the provisions of federal law, state law, or this code relating to intoxicating liquor, the council may revoke the license, suspend the license for up to 60 days, impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation, or impose any combination of these sanctions. (Amended, Ord. No. 2000-01, Sec. 1)

1200.25. Liquor control commissioner. The city clerk must after issuing any retail liquor license submit to the liquor control commissioner of the state of Minnesota the full name and address of each person granted such license including the trade name, effective license date, date of expiration, change of address, change of ownership, suspension, cancellation, or the revocation of such license by the council.

1200.27. Multiple ownership. Except where a combination "on sale" and "off sale" or "Sunday sale" license is permitted by the laws of the state of Minnesota a person may not knowingly have or possess a direct or indirect interest in more than one retail license in the city. Interest includes any pecuniary interest in the ownership, operation, management, or profits of retail liquor establishment other than bona fide rental agreements, bona fide loans or bona fide open accounts. A manufacturer or wholesaler may not directly or indirectly own or control or have any financial interest in any retail business selling intoxicating liquor.

1200.29. License transfer; posting. Liquor licenses are non-transferable. Licenses must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for which they are issued.

1200.31. License refunds. A liquor license may be pro rata refunded by the council in the following cases:
	a) The licensed premises of the business is destroyed by fire or other catastrophe.
	b) The licensee ceases business because of death or serious illness.
	c) Any act of the legislature or local option election prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors by the licensee.
	
1200.33. Health regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. "On sale" sanitary facilities. In premises licensed for "on sale" separate wash rooms, including flush toilets must be provided for each sex on the inside of the premises and must be provided with a ventilation system permitting the air from the outside to circulate so that there will be a complete change of air at least four times per hour.
	Subd. 2. Inspections. The premises of liquor establishments may be inspected by city officials and other public officers at any time. The premises must be maintained in a sanitary condition. Laws, regulations and ordinances in force pertaining to sanitation and health must be complied with. Glasses must be sterilized prior to being refilled or reused.

1200.35. Conditions of license; penalties. 
	Subdivision 1. Beverage. Licenses issued under this section are subject to the conditions of this subsection. A licensee is responsible for the conduct of the licensed place of business. (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11)
	Subd. 2. Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for:
		a) A licensee to sell or furnish to a minor, or to any habitual drunkard, or to any person obviously intoxicated, or to any person to whom sale is prohibited by Minnesota Statutes, any intoxicating liquor.
		b) A minor to be employed to sell or serve intoxicating liquor.
		c) A licensee to keep, possess, or operate, or permit the keeping, possession, or operation of, on the licensed premises, or in any room adjoining the premises, any slot machines, dice or any gambling device or apparatus, nor permit any gambling therein, or permit the licensed premises or any room in the same or any adjoining building directly or indirectly under the license's control to be used for prostitution or by other disorderly persons.
		d) A licensee or an employee of licensee to fail to cooperate fully with police in investigating illegal acts upon the licensed premises. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11)
		e) Sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages before or after authorized hours of operation on the licensed premises. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11)
		f) Illegal gambling, prostitution, or adult entertainment occurring on the licensed premises. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11)
		g) Any other violation of this section or Minnesota Statutes Chapters 340A or 297F, each as amended. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11)
	Subd. 3. Liquor in autos. Liquor may not be sold, served, or consumed in an automobile or on a street or alley within the city.
	Subd. 4. Minors. The provisions of Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503, as amended, are adopted by reference. (Amended, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11)
	Subd. 5 Penalties. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11)
		a) Misdemeanors. A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided by law
		b) Presumptive revocation. The Council will revoke a license on the first violation for the following types of offenses:
			1) Commission of a felony by licensee or an employee of licensee related to the licensed activity authorized by this chapter and Minnesota Statutes Chapter 340 A, each as amended.
			2) The sale of alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises while a license is under suspension or revocation.
		c) Administrative civil penalties. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee is found to have violated this section, the city council may impose an administrative penalty as follows:
			1) First violation: a civil fine in the amount of $750 and license suspension for a period of one day.
			2) Second violation within 24 months after the first violation: a civil fine in the amount of $1500 and suspension of license for a period of 3 days.
			3) Third violation within 36 months after the second violation: a civil fine in the amount of $2,000 and suspension of license for a period of 10 days.
			4) Fourth violation within 36 months after the third violation: revocation of license.
	Subd. 6. Presumptions regarding administrative penalties. The administrative penalties described in subdivision 3 of this section are the presumed sanctions for the violations indicated. In the event of any license suspension imposed under subdivision 3, the city council may select which days a suspension will be served. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision 5, a license may be revoked for any violation of this section when in the judgment of the council it is appropriate to do so. The city council may impose lesser penalties under subdivision 3 when in the judgment of the council it is appropriate to do so. The city council may by resolution revise the amount of the above civil penalties stated in subdivision 5 above, in Appendix IV. Other mandatory requirements may be made of the establishment, including but not limited to, meetings with the Police Department staff to present a plan of action to assure that the problem will not continue, mandatory education sessions with Crime Prevention staff, or other actions that the City Council deems appropriate. (Added, Ord. No. 2012-01, Sec. 11) 1200.37. Hours of sale. The hours of sale for intoxicating liquor are those specified in Minnesota Statutes, chapter 340A and section 1200.43 of this code. (Amended, Ord. No. 2001-05, Sec. 1).

1200.39. Proximity to churches and schools. A liquor license will not be granted for a building or place within 300 feet of any school building or church building without 60 days prior notification given by the clerk to the governmental entity or organization operating the school or church.

1200.41. Temporary on sale licenses. The city council may issue temporary on sale licenses for the on sale of intoxicating liquor to clubs, or charitable, religious or other non-profit organizations in the manner and subject to the conditions specified in Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.404, subdivision 10. The fee for a temporary on sale license is set by appendix IV.

1200.43. Sunday sales; special regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. General. An establishment licensed for Sunday sale of intoxicating liquor must observe the regulations set forth in this subsection.
	Subd. 2. Restaurant license. The establishment must be licensed as a restaurant under this code and conform to the provisions of chapter VI.
	Subd. 3. Food service. Food service in the establishment must be provided continuously during operating hours as permitted by this code.
	Subd. 4. Food preparation. The food preparation area of the establishment must be capable of preparing and serving full meals. At least one cook and one dishwasher must be on duty during hours of operation.
	Subd. 5. Staff; personnel. The food service area of the establishment must have table seating for at least 30 persons. There must be on duty and assigned to the food service area at least 
		(i) two waiters or waitresses or 
		(ii) one waiter or waitress and one bus boy or bus girl during hours of operation. Generally, the food service staff must be adequate for the usual and suitable preparation and service of the presented menu and proper sanitation of the food service areas and food preparation areas.
	Subd. 6. Menu. The menu at the establishment must consist of not less than four distinct entrees complete with vegetable, salad, rolls or bread and a selection of beverages.
	Subd. 7. Clean air act. The establishment must conform to the requirements of Minnesota Statutes, sections 144.411 to 144.417, the Minnesota clean indoor air act, as amended. (Amended, Ord. No. 2007-12, Sec. 3)
	Subd. 8. Hours of Sunday sales. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503, subdivision 3(b), Sunday sales may be conducted between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Sundays and 1:00 a.m. on Mondays. (Added, Ord. No. 2001-05, Sec. 2)
	
1200.45. Notice; granting of license. The city manager must give mailed notice of the council consideration of application for a new on sale intoxicating liquor license to property owners and residents of residential properties within 500 feet of the location of the licensed premises. The notice must 
	(i) be mailed at least ten days prior to the date of council consideration, 
	(ii) state the date, time and place of the council meeting, 
	(iii) the address of the licensed premises, 
	(iv) the name of the applicant and the proposed name of the licensed premises. Failure to give the notice does not affect the validity of the license.

1200.47. (Added, Ord. 2008-3) Social host liability. 
	Subdivision 1. Purpose and findings. The Crystal city council intends to discourage underage possession and consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the alcohol. The Crystal city council finds that:
		(a) Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring prevention or abatement.
		(b) Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons, as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption, such as alcohol overdose or alcoholrelated traffic collisions.
		(c) Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by the actions of an irresponsible user. 
		(d) Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times when the parent(s) is/are present and, condone the activity, and in some circumstances provide the alcohol.
		(e) Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further combat underage consumption.
		(f) A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or consumption occurs.
	Subd. 2. Authority. This subsection is enacted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, sections 145A.05, subdivision 1 and 340A.509.
	Subd. 3. Definitions. For purposes of this subsection, the following terms have the following meanings:
		(a) Alcohol. “Alcohol” means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
		(b) Alcoholic beverage. “Alcoholic beverage” means alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains onehalf of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
		(c) Event or gathering. “Event or gathering” means any group of three or more persons who have assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
		(d) Host. “Host” means to aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or permit a gathering or event.
		(e) Parent. “Parent” means any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
			(1) As natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
			(2) As a legal guardian; or
			(3) As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
		(f) Person. “Person” means any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any association of one or more individuals.
		(g) Residence or premises. “Residence” or “premises” means any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment, condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
		(h) Underage person. “Underage person” is an individual under 21 years of age.
	Subd. 4. Prohibited acts.
		(a) It is unlawful for any person(s) to; 
			Host an event or gathering; At any residence, premises, or on any other private or public property; Where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present; When the person knows or reasonably should know that an underage person will or does
				(i) consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or 
				(ii) possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to consume it; and
			The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession or consumption by the underage person(s). Possession by a person under the age of 21 at a place other than the household of a parent or guardian creates a rebuttable presumption of intent to consume it. This presumption may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence.
		(b) A person is criminally responsible for violating subdivision 4(a) above if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
		(c) A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
	Subd. 5. Exceptions.
		(a) This subsection does not apply to conduct solely between an underage person and their parents while present in the parent’s household.
		(b) This section does not apply to legally protected religious observances.
		(c) This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders who are regulated by Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503, subdivision 1(a)(1).
		(d) This subsection does not apply to situations where underage persons are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course and scope of employment.
	Subd. 6. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or other portion of this subsection is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or invalid, in whole, or in part, by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed severable, and such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this law, which remaining portions shall continue in full force and effect.
	Subd. 7. Penalty. Violation of subdivision 4 is a misdemeanor.
	Subd. 8. Effective date. This subsection shall take effect 30 days following its final passage and adoption.
