1215.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "3.2% malt liquor" or "beer" means a malt liquor that contains not more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight and not less than 1/2 of 1% alcohol by volume, and is a fermented malt beverage. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 3)
	Subd. 3. "Intoxicating liquor" and "liquor" means ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
	Subd. 4. "Sale" or "sell" or "sold" means all barters, gifts and all manners or means of furnishing non-intoxicating malt liquor including such furnishing in violation or evasion of law.
	Subd. 5. "Package" or "original package" means a container, can, receptacle, or bottle holding or containing 3.2% malt liquor which remains capped, corked or sealed. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 4)
	Subd. 6. "Off sale" means the sale of 3.2% malt liquor to be consumed off the premises. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 5)
	Subd. 7. "On sale" means the sale of 3.2% malt liquor to be consumed on the premises. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-7, Sec. 6)
	Subd. 8. "Manufacturer" means a person who by any process of manufacture, fermenting or brewing must prepare or produce 3.2% malt liquor. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 7)
	Subd. 9. "Wholesaler" means a person engaged in the business of selling 3.2% malt liquor to retail dealers. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 8)
	Subd. 10. "Bona fide club" means a non-profit corporation duly organized under the laws of the state of Minnesota and in continuous existence holding meetings for more than one year prior to the granting of the license which is organized for civic, religious, fraternal, social, sports or intellectual purposes where the serving of 3.2% malt liquor is incidental to and not the major purpose of the organization. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 9)
	Subd. 11. "Tavern" means a place other than a bona fide club that in addition to serving its guests 3.2% malt liquor is used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be where: (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 10)
		a) Music of any kind whatsoever is played, either by orchestra, phonograph, automatic piano, radio, television, musical instrument, or any other machine or device of any kind or character, or
		b) Where there is singing, dancing, vaudeville, stage show, or any other amusement of any kind on the premises.
	Subd. 12. For purposes of this section the term "minor" means a person under the age specified in Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503.
	
1215.03. License required. It is unlawful to sell, or keep for sale, beer without first obtaining a license therefor from the city and complying with the laws of the state of Minnesota, the regulations of the liquor control commissioner, appropriate regulations and statutes of the United States, and this section. 1215.05. Qualifications of applicant. A license may not be issued to a person other than a citizen of the United States, who is not a minor, who is of good moral character and repute, nor to any person who within five years prior to the application for such license has been convicted of a wilful violation of any law of the United States or the state of Minnesota or any local ordinance, with regard to the manufacture, sale, distribution or possession for sale or distribution of intoxicating liquor or of 3.2% malt liquor, nor to any person whose license under this section has been revoked for a wilful violation of any such laws or ordinance. A false material statement made in the application is grounds for revocation of the license. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 11)

1215.07. Restriction on issuance of licenses. 
	Subdivision 1. Multiple ownership. A person may not knowingly have or possess a direct or indirect interest in more than one tavern license in the city. 
	Subd. 2. Licensee must be proprietor. A beer license may not be issued to an applicant unless that person is the actual owner or proprietor of the premises where beer is to be sold.
	Subd. 3. Federal stamp tax holder. A beer license may not be granted to a holder of a federal retail dealer's special tax stamp for the sale of intoxicating liquor at any place, unless the holder also has a license to sell intoxicating liquor at that location.
	Subd. 4. Other ownership. A manufacturer or wholesaler of beer may not have any ownership in whole or part either directly or indirectly in the business of any licensee under this section.
	Subd. 5. Ineligible person. A retail beer license may not be issued to a person who has been convicted of a felony during the past five years under the laws of the state of Minnesota or any other state; who has been convicted three times of the non-wilful violation of the provisions of a municipal ordinance regulating the sale, possession, use, manufacture or transportation of intoxicating liquor or beer within the last five years; or whose intoxicating liquor or beer license has been revoked for any reason during the past five years. The five year period is computed from the date of application for license.
	Subd. 6. Proximity to churches and schools. A beer license may not be granted for a building or place within 300 feet of any school building or church building without 60 days prior notification given by the clerk to the governmental entity or organization operating the school or church. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-5)
	Subd. 7. Ineligible premises. A beer license may not be granted to premises where the licensee has had the license revoked for any reason until one year has elapsed after the revocation. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-5)
	
1215.09. Application contents. 
	Subdivision 1. Individuals. The applicant for an off sale beer license and special permit license must supply the information listed in items a) to f) below, but all information must be supplied if so requested by the manager or council. For all other beer licenses each new applicant must supply all the information listed below.
		a) Name and age of applicant. 
		b) Marital status.
		c) Whether applicant is a registered voter and in which municipality.
		d) The various addresses at which the applicant has resided during the last five years preceding the making of the application.
		e) The exact street address or legal description of premises where licensed business is to be conducted.
		f) Name or names of all persons owning or having an interest and the extent of such interest in the licensed business, including their age, occupation, residence and place of business.
		g) Whether the applicant has ever operated a saloon, cafe, soft drink parlor or other business of a similar nature, and if so, where and for how long.
		h) The kind and location of every business and occupation that the applicant has been engaged in during the last five years prior to the making of the application, together with the name and address of all employers by whom engaged during that period.
		i) Whether the applicant has ever been arrested for or convicted of any state or federal crime, violation of any ordinance, state or federal regulations concerning intoxicating liquor or beer and the reason such arrests or convictions were made.
		j) A list of all leases or subleases of real estate, building fixtures and furniture where nonintoxicating malt liquor is to be sold, and a list of all syndicate, trustee, guardian, partnership, rental and powers of attorney arrangements.
		k) A list of all liquor or beer businesses in which applicant has an interest and the extent of such interest.
		l) The name, address and age of every person who will have charge, management or control of the licensed premises.
		m) Names and addresses of at least three or more persons who have known the applicant well enough during the past five years to attest to the applicant's good character and reputation.
		n) A diagram of the layout of the building, premises and parking lot, in the case of new applicants for club and tavern licenses. 
	Subd. 2. Renewal application. An application for renewal of a beer license must be made at least 20 days prior to the renewal date. The application must state any material change in the information supplied with the original application.
	Subd. 3. Corporations and partnerships. If the applicant is a corporation or partnership, the application must supply the information listed in subdivision 1 for the manager of the licensed premises and must also list the name and general purpose of the corporation or partnership and the state under whose laws it is incorporated or organized. The following information is mandatory for all tavern and club licenses, but for off sale licenses only if requested by the manager or council:
		a) The names of all partners if a partnership and the names of all officers, directors and stockholders, and their addresses if a corporation.
		b) Each individual's interest in the license and the extent of such interest; as to each individual, all the information required above must be furnished as for an individual applicant and such other information as the manager or council may from time to time require.
		c) The individual or individuals having controlling interest of the corporation or partnership. 
		d) All voting arrangements, trustee, syndicate, proxies and powers of attorney arrangements for the voting of shares of stock, and which shares of stock are voting and which are nonvoting.
		e) The name of any other municipality in the state of Minnesota in which the applicant has held or presently holds a license for the sale of intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 12) If at any time during the term of an off sale license held by a corporation or partnership, the manager of the licensed premises is changed, the licensee must promptly notify the city manager and submit the information required by subdivision 1 on the new manager.
		
1215.11. Investigation of application. 
	Subdivision 1. Duties of chief of police. Applications for a beer license must be referred to the chief of police for a CCH Investigation as authorized by section 311 of the city code. Each manager under a corporation or partnership license and each individual or person having any beneficial interest in the license must be investigated. The chief of police must make necessary inquiry and list all violations pending that occurred at the establishment being investigated while under the same ownership. The chief must verify the facts stated in the application and investigate the operation of applicant under an intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor license in any other municipality in the state of Minnesota by means of a CCH Investigation as authorized by section 311 of the city code. The chief must report the findings and comments to the manager who must order or conduct such additional investigation as the chief deems necessary or as the council may direct. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 13; Ord. No. 2007-11, Sec. 10)
	Subd. 2. Fees. An applicant for a new beer license must pay to the city finance director the fee set by appendix IV for each individual investigated pursuant to subdivision 1. A similar fee must be paid for any investigation required by this section upon renewal of a beer license. 1215.13. Burden of proof. Subdivision 1. Facts. The applicant or holder of a beer license has the burden of proving to the council the following:
		a) That each individual having a pecuniary interest or a beneficial interest in the license is a person of good character and integrity.
		b) That the person applying for the license or holding the same is in fact the true proprietor thereof and that each individual having any interest in the license has in fact been listed correctly on the application, and the council has been accurately apprised promptly of any and all changes in the person holding the license, regardless of whether an individual, partnership, corporation or group by whatever arrangement organized.
		c) That the premises are suitable for the type and kind of license required. 
		d) That the applicant or licensee will be responsible for his agents, employees and servants and for the conduct of the licensed place of business and for conditions of sobriety and order therein.
		e) That the provisions of this code and state and federal law will be complied with.
	Subd. 2. Failure to disclose. In the event that the applicant for a license, or a holder of an existing license, fails to make full disclosure to the council, manager, or police chief or any officer of the city so designated by any of them or fail to promptly produce books, records, leases or subleases or to promptly correct any deficiency in the operation or management of the premises as requested, then such refusal or non-compliance may be sufficient grounds for denial of the new license, revocation or suspension of an existing license or refusal to renew an existing license.
	
1215.15. License year. Pro rata licenses for a partial year may be issued to new tavern licensees only. Other applicants must pay the full annual license fee. Any period of less than one month that the license is in effect will be considered and computed as one month for the payment of the pro rata fee, except as provided in this subsection. Beer licenses expire annually on June 30. The council may provide by resolution for an increase or decrease in the license fees for off sale, tavern, bona fide club, or special permit licenses. Failure to pay the fee required for a beer license when due automatically terminates the license and it may only be reinstated after at least ten days notice and hearing before the council in accordance with appendix IV.

1215.17. Types of licenses; fees. There are four kinds of beer licenses: 
	a) A tavern license permits the on sale of beer. Unless operating under a tavern license no music of any kind is permitted to be played on a licensed intoxicating liquor or beer premises, except in a bona fide club, either by orchestra, phonograph, piano, radio, television or any other musical instrument, machine or device of any kind or character, nor is live entertainment of any kind or dancing permitted on the premises.
	b) Off sale license.
	c) Bona fide club license.
	d) Special permit on sale license, which may be issued by the council to non-profit corporations, social organizations, lodges, labor unions, churches and for sale to members and guests for a period not to exceed five days. The fees for each kind of license are set by appendix IV.
	
1215.19. Improper license; mandatory revocation. A license issued to a person not entitled to receive the same under this section or any law or regulation of the state of Minnesota or any law or regulation of the United States must be revoked by the council after ten days' notice and public hearing in accordance with appendix IV.

1215.21. License revocation or suspension. Upon conviction of the licensee, or of any agent or employee of said licensee, for violation of any of the provisions of federal law, state law, or this code relating to 3.2 percent malt liquor, the council may revoke the license, suspend the license for up to 60 days, impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation, or impose any combination of these sanctions. (Amended, Ord. No. 2000-01, Sec. 2)

1215.23. Transfer of license; posting. Beer licenses are non-transferable. Beer licenses must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for which they are issued.

1215.25. Refunds of fees. Tavern licenses may be pro rata refunded if the licensed premises are destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, or the licensee ceases business because of death or serious illness. No other refunds are permitted.

1215.27. Health regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. Sanitary facilities. In each licensed on sale establishment there must be installed and maintained at least one toilet room for each sex. In each toilet room for use by women there must be installed and maintained at least one water closet and one lavatory. In each toilet room for use by men, there must be installed and maintained at least one water closet, one lavatory, one urinal, and a properly installed and maintained floor drain sufficient at all times to keep such floor dry and in a sanitary condition. Water closet bowls must be of extended lip pattern styles equipped with an open front and must at all times be kept clean, sanitary and in good working condition. The floors and side walls, except doors, to a height of at least three feet above the floor, of toilet rooms and urinal compartments must be constructed of a non-corrosive and non-absorbent material, and approved by the building inspector. Toilet rooms may not be installed in cellars or basements if there are no other rest rooms in the establishment. When toilet rooms are on the same floor the entrances thereto must be located as far apart as practicable, and each must be plainly marked to indicate whether for men or women. Toilet rooms must be provided with a ventilator system permitting the air from the outside to circulate so that there will be a complete change of air at least four times per hour.
	Subd. 2. Inspections. Licensed beer establishments must be open for inspection by the city officials and other public officers at all times. The premises must be maintained in a sanitary condition. All laws, regulations and ordinances in force pertaining to sanitation and health must be complied with. Glasses must be sterilized prior to being refilled or reused.
	
1215.29. Hours of sale. The hours of sale for 3.2% malt liquor are those specified in Minnesota Statutes, chapter 340A. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-07, Sec. 15)

1215.31. Regulations of minors. The provisions of Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503 are adopted by reference.

1215.33. License conditions. 
	Subdivision 1. Licensee's responsibility. The licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business. The licensee is responsible for agents, employees or servants. Beer may not be sold to an habitual drunkard, to any person obviously intoxicated, or to any person to whom the sale is prohibited by ordinance or statute.
	Subd. 2. Gambling. Gambling is not permitted on a licensed premises.
	Subd. 3. Federal retail liquor license. It is unlawful to sell beer while holding or exhibiting in the place of business a federal retail liquor dealer's special tax stamp without having an intoxicating liquor license from the city.
	Subd. 4. Bona fide club. Bona fide clubs may sell beer only to members and to their guests. Clubs must enforce this regulation and all regulations of this section.
	
1215.35. Places where sale forbidden. 
	Subdivision 1. Pool tables. Pool tables, billiard tables, bumper pool tables, or coin operated pool tables are not allowed upon the licensed premises unless the said pool tables, billiard tables, bumper pool tables or coin operated pool tables are enclosed in a separate room or enclosure. Beer may not be sold or consumed in such a room or enclosure.
	Subd. 2. Other places. Beer may not be sold, served, or consumed in any automobile or on any street, alley or other public place within the city, nor on any other public premises except when permitted by a special permit license issued by the council.
	
1215.37. Multiple ownership. A person may not knowingly have or possess a direct or indirect interest in more than one retail tavern or on sale license within the city.

1215.39. Change of control. 
	Subdivision 1. New proprietor, owner or partnership. Prior approval of the council is necessary if there is a change in the ownership, change of proprietor or a new partnership formed to control the license. A new application, new investigation and new license fee and processing is then necessary.
	Subd. 2. Corporation. A change in the legal ownership or beneficial interest in shares of stock entitled to be voted at any meeting of the stockholders of a corporate licensee which results in or which could so result, if exercised, in a change of voting control of the corporate licensee, is declared to be a transfer of a beer license which is proscribed by this section and prior approval by the council is required. A new application, new investigation, new license fee and processing is then necessary.
	Subd. 3. Council approval. The council must consider and vote on the matter of the change of the ownership or control of the corporate or other licensee as though an outsider were applying for a new license. The failure to obtain the approval of the council or to produce books or other records in compliance with this section is grounds for automatic revocation of the corporate beer license after notice and a public hearing in accordance with appendix IV.
	
1215.41. Notice; granting of license. The city manager must give mailed notice of the council consideration of application for a new on sale 3.2% malt liquor license to property owners and residents of residential properties within 500 feet of the location of the licensed premises. The notice must 
	(i) be mailed at least ten days prior to the date of council consideration, 
	(ii) state the date, time and place of the council meeting, 
	(iii) the address of the licensed premises, (iv) the name of the applicant and the proposed name of the licensed premises. Failure to give the notice does not affect the validity of the license. (Amended, Ord. No. 99-007, Sec. 16)
