Section 705 - Sewer system; private sewers
705.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For the purposes of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Sewage works" means facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
	Subd. 3. "Superintendent" means the utilities superintendent in the public works department. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 4. "Sewage" means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such ground, surface and storm water as may be present.
	Subd. 5. "Sewer" means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
	Subd. 6. "Public sewer" means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
	Subd. 7. "Sanitary sewer" means a sewer which carried sewage and to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
	Subd. 8. "Storm sewer or storm drain" means a sewer which carried storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
	Subd. 9. "Industrial wastes" means the liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from sanitary sewage.
	Subd. 10. "Garbage" means solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
	Subd. 11. "Properly shredded garbage" means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
	Subd. 12. "Building drain" means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
	Subd. 13. "Building sewer" means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
	Subd. 14. "B.O.D." (or biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C., expressed in parts per million (ppm) by weight.
	Subd. 15. "ph" means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per litter of solution.
	Subd. 16. "Suspended solids" means solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
	Subd. 17. "Natural outlet" means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
	Subd. 18. "Watercourse" means the channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
	Subd. 19. "Sewage treatment plant" means an arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.

705.03. Public sewers; general rules. 
	Subdivision 1. Deposits. It is unlawful to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste in public or private property in the city.
	Subd. 2. Discharge of sewage. It is unlawful to discharge sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters into a natural outlet in the city.
	Subd. 3. Septic tanks. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
	Subd. 4. Sewer connections. The owner of a house, building or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting on a street, alley, or right-of-way in which there was located on August 5, 1955 or thereafter located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this section within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so. The owner of a house, building or property where cesspools or drainfields and septic tanks have been in existence prior to the construction of the sanitary sewer, must connect with the public sewer when such cesspools, drainfields or septic tanks are in need of repairs, reconstruction or pumping.

705.05. Private sewers. 
	Subdivision 1. Permits. Building permits or plumbing permits for new construction of buildings or for the alteration of existing buildings will not be granted unless a direct connection to the public sanitary sewer is provided for. The building or plumbing inspector must examine plans and specifications of the applicant to insure compliance with this subsection.
	Subd. 2. Connection. When a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection must be made to the public sewer in compliance with this section and any septic tanks, cesspools and other similar private sewage disposal facilities must be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
	Subd. 3. Septic tanks; cesspools; filling. Contents of abandoned septic tanks or cesspools may be pumped into the sewer or may be emptied by flowing the contents thereof into the building sewer pipe at the property line, provided that a screen is placed at the inlet to the pipe to prevent obstructions from entering the system. After such draining into the sewer system the line must be flushed with clean water for a period of two hours. Solids may not be permitted to enter the sewer system.

705.07. Building sewers. 
	Subdivision 1. Permit required. It is unlawful to uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city and otherwise complying with the terms of this section. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 2. To whom issued. Permits for building sewers and connections may be issued only to master plumbers and pipelayers card holders licensed and bonded in accordance with appendix IV of this code. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 3. Plumbers; insurance. Prior to the commencement of construction work the master plumber must obtain a policy of insurance against damages to property or injury or death to persons, which policy must indemnify and save harmless the city and all of its officers and personnel against any claim, demand, damages, actions, or causes of action arising out of or by reason of the doing of the work or activities related to incident thereto, and from any costs, disbursements or expenses of defending the same. The property damage insurance coverage must be as required in Minnesota Statutes 466.04, as amended. Proof of insurance must be filed with the clerk prior to commencement of construction work. The policy must provide that the city is to be notified immediately of any termination of or modification to such insurance. Changes in insurance coverage or insurance carriers must be reported immediately to the clerk. If the insurance coverage provided in this section is inadequate in amount, then the master plumber must indemnify and save harmless the city and all of its officers and personnel in like manner. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 4. Application for permit. The master plumber or pipelayers card holder must make application for a building sewer permit on forms furnished by the city. The permit application must be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information that the superintendent may reasonably require, and accompanied by the fee imposed by appendix IV. The city must furnish a permit card with a permit number which must be prominently displayed on property where sewer connection is being made. The permit card must be displayed for the duration of the building sewer work. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 5. Costs. Costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer must be borne by the owner of the property. The owner must indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
	Subd. 6. Separate building sewers. A separate and independent building sewer must be provided for every building. Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and tested by the superintendent to meet all the requirements of this section.
	Subd. 7. Construction materials. The Minnesota Plumbing Code, as amended, is hereby adopted and incorporated in this section by reference. All sanitary sewer construction and material shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Minnesota Plumbing Code, as amended, except as follows: (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
		a) If the distance is farther than 75 feet from the street to the building, a four-inch cleanout pipe with leak-proof cover set just below grade must be installed and brought to the surface of the ground from the sanitary sewer service at a distance not to exceed each 75-foot interval. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
		b) The diameter of all building sewer pipe must be equal to or less than the diameter of the service stub. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
		c) All quarter bends used in the sewer lines must be longsweep of bends. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
		d) A maximum of only two quarter bends will be permitted in a building sewer without cleanout. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
		e) No construction of the building sewer will be allowed until the service has been uncovered to establish the maximum building sewer grade. If the distance is farther than 100 feet from the street to the building, grade will be established and maintained by stubs and batter boards. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
		f) Only joints connected with approved connectors will be allowed connecting the building sewer to the building drain or the building drain to the public sewer. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
		g) Joints and connectors must be made gastight and watertight. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 8. Private sewer crossings. Building sewer pipe may be laid across existing cesspools and septic tanks providing pipe rests on a steel reinforced concrete slab, the ends of which rest directly on the concrete block walls. The two center sections of a regular cesspool cover laid parallel with each other may be used.
	Subd. 9. Building intersection. Whenever possible the building sewer must be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer must be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth must be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer must be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
	Subd. 10. Pumps. In buildings in which a building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain must be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
	Subd. 11. Excavations. Excavations required for the installation of a building sewer must be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the superintendent. Tunnelling may be permitted but no tunnel may exceed six feet in length and the pipe must be installed so as to permit inspection of all joints. Backfill may not be placed until work has been inspected.
	Subd. 12. Connections. The connection for the building sewer into the public sewer must be made at the "Y" branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If the public sewer has no properly located "Y" branch available, the owner must at the owner's expense make a machine-cut hole into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of approximately 45 degrees. A 45 degree ell may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection must be the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint must be made, and the connection made secure and watertight by use of approved saddle or encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the superintendent and the engineer. Where building sewers or house sewers have been provided for each separate structure, all connections to the public sanitary sewer must be made where building sewers and house sewers have been installed. Connection with the public sanitary sewer at any other location must be approved by the engineer prior to the starting of any construction. If the building sewer or house sewer which has been installed cannot be used, then the property owner must pay the full cost of making the connection elsewhere. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 13. Inspection of work. The applicant for the building sewer permit must notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection must be made under the supervision of the superintendent or superintendent's representative. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec 2)
	Subd. 14. Barricades. Excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disbursed in the course of the work must be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. Traffic control must be accomplished by following rules of the Minnesota Uniform Traffic Control Manual, as amended. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 2)

705.09. Storm water discharge. 
	Subdivision 1. Designation of storm sewers. Storm water and other unpolluted drainage must be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the council. Industrial cooling waters or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the council to a storm sewer, or natural outlet. Discharge of sump pump, footing drain and other runoff-related water is addressed in Section 730 of this Code. (Amended, Ord. No. 2002-01, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 3)
	Subd. 2. Wastes prohibited in sewers. Except as provided in this section, it is unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer: (Amended, Ord. No. 2002-01, Sec. 1)
		a) Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees F.
		b) Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
		c) Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
		d) Garbage that has not been properly shredded.
		e) Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plasters, paunch manure, disposable diapers and linens and other similar wet-strength paper materials, or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
		f) Water of wastes having a ph lower and 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works.
		g) Waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
		h) Water or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such material at the sewage treatment plant.
		i) Noxious or malodorous gases or substances capable of creating a public nuisance.
	Subd. 3. Interceptors. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors must be provided when necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors must not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All such interceptors must be of a type and capacity approved by the engineer, and must be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspections. Grease and oil interceptors must be constructed of impervious materials capable or withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They must be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers which when bolted in place must be gastight and watertight. Where installed, grease, oil and sand interceptors must be maintained by the owner, at the owner's expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times. (Amended, Ord. No. 2002-01, Sec. 1)

705.11. Approval of industrial wastes. 
	Subdivision 1. Prohibited wastes. The admission into the public sewers of any water or wastes enumerated in this subsection must be approved by the engineer:
		a) A five day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or
		b) Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or
		c) Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in subsection 705.09, subdivision 3.
		d) Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage flow of the city.
	The owner must provide at the owner's expense such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
		a) Reduce the BOD to 300 parts per million by weight and the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or
		b) Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided for in subsection 705.09 of this code; or
		c) Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.
	Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities must be submitted for the approval of the engineer and of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. No construction of facilities may be commenced until written approvals are obtained from each.
	Subd. 2. Preliminary treatment facilities. Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they must be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at the owner's expense.
	Subd. 3. Control manholes. The owner of property served by a building sewer carrying industrial waste must install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, must be accessibly and safely located, and must be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the engineer. The manhole must be installed by the owner at the owner's expense, and must be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
	Subd. 4. Test methods. Measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in subdivisions 1 and 2 of this subsection will be determined in accordance with methods employed by the Minnesota department of health, and will be determined at the control manhole provided for in subdivision 3 of this subsection, or from suitable samples taken at the control manhole. If a special manhole has not been required, the control manhole will be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
	Subd. 5. Industrial exceptions. Nothing in this section is to be construed to prevent a special agreement or arrangement between the city and an industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
	
705.13. Damage. It is unlawful to maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment that is a part of the municipal sewage works.

705.15. Inspections. The city engineer, superintendent, and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification may enter upon all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
