Section 730 – Prohibiting discharges into the sanitary sewer system (Added, Ord. No. 2002-01, Sec. 2)
730.01. Purpose. The discharge of water from roof, surface, groundwater sump pump, footing tile, swimming pool, or other natural precipitation into the city sewerage system results in flooding and overloading of the sewerage system. When this water is discharged into the sanitary sewer system it is treated at the sewage treatment plant. This results in very large and needless expenditures. The city council, therefore, finds it in the best interest of the city to prohibit such discharges.

730.03. Discharge prohibited. Except as otherwise expressly authorized in this section, no water from any roof, surface, groundwater sump pump, footing tile, swimming pool, or other natural precipitation shall be discharged into the sanitary sewer system. Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require, because of infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces, and the like, a sump pump discharge system shall have a permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary sewer system, except as provided herein. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year round discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building, or structure, or is connected to city storm sewer or discharge through the curb and gutter to the street. It shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valving or quick connections for altering the path of discharge, and if connected to the city storm sewer line, shall include a check valve and an air gap located in a small diameter structure.

730.05. Disconnection. Before June 1, 2002, any person having a yard drain, roof surface, groundwater sump pump, footing tile, or swimming pool now connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect or remove same. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer system shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner.

730.07. Inspection. Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the city's sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the city of Crystal or a designated representative of the city to inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system. In lieu of having the city inspect their property, any person may furnish a certificate from a licensed plumber certifying that their property is in compliance with this section.

730.09. Future inspections. Each sump pump connection identified will be reinspected periodically.

730.11. New construction. All new dwellings with sumps for which a building permit is issued after June 1, 2002, shall have a pump and shall be piped to the outside of the dwelling before a certificate of occupancy is issued.

730.13. Surcharge. A surcharge as specified in appendix IV is hereby imposed on every sewer bill mailed on and after January 1, 2003 to property owners who are not in compliance with this section or who have refused to allow their property to be inspected to determine if there is compliance. All properties found during reinspection to have violated this section will be subject to the penalty for all months between the two most recent inspections. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 22)

730.15. Winter discharge. The city manager is authorized to issue a permit to allow a property owner to discharge surface water into the sanitary sewer system. The permit shall authorize such discharge only from November 15 to March 15 and a property owner is required to meet at least one of the following criteria in order to obtain the permit:
	a) The freezing of the surface water discharge from the sump pump or footing drain is causing a dangerous condition, such as ice buildup or flooding, on either public or private property.
	b) The property owner has demonstrated that there is a danger that the sump pump or footing drain pipes will freeze up and result in either failure or damage to the sump pump unit or the footing drain and cause basement flooding.
	c) The water being discharged from the sump pump or footing drain cannot be readily discharged into a storm drain or other acceptable drainage system.
	Following ten days written notice and an opportunity to be heard, the city manager may require a property to discharge their sump pump into the sanitary sewer from November 15 to March 15 if surface water discharge is causing an icy condition on streets.
