Section 710 - Sanitary sewer service charges
710.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section, the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Normal sewage" means water-carried waste products from residences, public buildings, business or industrial establishments, schools, or any other buildings or structures, including the excrements or other discharge from human beings or animals, together with such ground water infiltration as may be present.
	Subd. 3. "Industrial waste" means a liquid, gaseous or solid waste substance resulting from any process of industry, manufacturing, trade, business, the development of any natural resource or a similar activity.

710.03. Classification of users. 
	Subdivision 1. Users of the city's sanitary sewer system are classified in the following subdivisions.
	Subd. 2. Residence or residential unit (two motel units must equal one residential unit)
		Filling stations
		Church
		Garage
		Drive-in
		Barber shop, four chairs or less
		Neighborhood grocery
		Bakery
		Business establishment with ten or less employees having private rest room facilities only.
	Subd. 3. Bowling alley
		Roller rink
		Restaurant
		Bank
		Business establishment with more than ten but less than 26 employees with private rest room facilities only.
	Subd. 4. On sale liquor establishment not serving food
		Meat market
		Medical clinic
		Drug store with fountain and lunch counter
		Business establishment with more than 25 but less than 51 employees with private rest room facilities only.
		Beauty shop
	Subd. 5. On sale liquor establishment, serving food, with seating capacity of less than 101 persons
		Business establishment with more than 50 or less than 76 employees with private rest room facilities only.
	Subd. 6. On sale liquor establishment, serving food, with seating capacity over 100 persons
		Business establishment with more than 75 employees and private rest room facilities only
		Laundromats
		Large supermarkets with refuse disposal units.
	Subd. 7. Buildings classified as personal property and located on land leased from the Metropolitan Airports Commission at the Crystal Airport. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 4)

710.05. Sewer use rates. 
	Subdivision 1. Charges imposed. The rates and charges for the use and service of the sanitary sewer system are fixed by this subsection. The rates and charges are made against each lot, parcel of land, unit or premises connecting directly or indirectly to the system and from which only normal sewage is discharged into the system.
	Subd. 2. Flat charges. Where the rate is not based upon the metered use of water the following quarterly charges for the respective user classifications established in subsection 710.03 are as follows:
		User classification established by subsection 710.03 Quarterly charge
		Subd. 2 $ 38.20
		Subd. 3 91.25
		Subd. 4 219.45
		Subd. 5 501.85
		Subd. 6 684.80 (Amended, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. Schools. For a public or private school the quarterly charge will be charged whether school is in session or not and will be based upon the metered water consumption on the premises served. The minimum quarterly charge is $12.35 per classroom per quarter. If a school has an unmetered private water supply the minimum quarterly charge applies. (Amended, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 4. Metered flow charge. For premises where the sewer service charge is based upon metered use of water the charge is to be computed at the rate of $1.25 per 100 cubic feet of water. (Amended, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 5. Commercial, industrial and institutional uses. The sewer service charge is based upon metered water consumption on the premises served. The minimum quarterly charge is $38.10 per quarter. If the premises has an unmetered private water supply system, the quarterly charges set forth in subdivision 2 apply. Special charges for high intensity effluent users are established by ordinance no. 78-13. (Amended, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 6. Residential units. The sewer service charge for residential units is the quarterly charge set by subdivision 2 of this subsection. Each available unit of occupancy in a multiple residence is a residential unit.
	Subd. 7. Crystal airport personal properties. There will be no sewer service charge if the water service is turned off. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 5)

710.07. Metered water supply. 
	Subdivision 1. Installation. A meter recording the use of water may be installed on any nonresidential lot, parcel, premises or unit enumerated in subsection 710.03, and thereafter the sewer use rate will be based upon such use of water. The engineer may require and order the installation of the meter on any such lot, parcel, premises, or unit or class thereof where it is determined that the flat charges are impractical to apply or result in inequitable charges because they are insufficient or excessive. Thereafter the rate will be based upon use of water as metered. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 6)
	Subd. 2. Maintenance of meters. A water meter installed for use or used as a basis for the computation of sewer rates must be installed and maintained in good operating condition at all times. The installation of a water meter must be without expense to the city. Water meters must be of a type approved by the utilities superintendent and must accurately measure all water received on the premises. Installation of and maintenance of the meter must be made in accordance with chapter IV of this code, specifically the provisions in Section 425.11, subdivision 5. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 6)

710.09. Water credit. If the lot, parcel of land, or premises discharges normal sewage or industrial waste into the sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the engineer that a portion of the water measured by the water meter does not and cannot enter the sanitary sewerage system, then the engineer may permit or require the installation of other or additional meters in such a manner that the quantity of water which actually could enter the sewer system may be determined. In these cases, the charges or rates will be based upon the amount of water which enters the sanitary sewerage system. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 7)

710.11. Information. The owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises will supply the city with such information as the city may reasonably require related to use of water, use of sewer, or sewer rates. Wilful failure to provide such information or wilful falsification of such information is a violation of this section as is wilful failure to comply with any requirement or order issued pursuant to this section.

710.13. Estimated bills. If the owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises fails or refuses to provide information as provided in subsection 710.11 of this code or fails or refuses to comply with any requirement of this section, then the charge for the premises will be estimated and billed accordingly.

710.15. Pro-ration of charges. For a fraction of a quarter the charges and rates for non-metered units will be pro-rated according to the month of the quarter in which connection to the sewer is made.

710.17. Billing. Bills for charges for the use and service of the sewerage system will be made out by the city office in accordance with the usual and customary practices. Bills must be rendered quarterly. Bills are payable at the city office.

710.19. (Repealed, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 4)

710.20. Collections. 
	Subdivision 1. Enforcement. A bill for sewer charges is due and payable on the 20th day of the month in which the bill is rendered. If payment of the billing has not been received by the city by the 25th day of the applicable month, a penalty of 10% of the billed amount will be added to the billed amount. The city may certify an unpaid bill, together with costs and interest, to the taxpayer services division manager for collection together with taxes against the property served as authorized by Minnesota Statutes, sections 279.03 and 444.075. This certification will be made regardless of who applied for sewer services, whether it was the owner, tenant or other person. Applications for sewer service will contain an explanation in clear language that unpaid sewer bills will be collected with real estate taxes in the following year. The city may bring a civil action or other remedies to collect unpaid charges. (Added, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 2)
	Subd. 2. Definitions. For purposes of this subsection, the term "sewer charges" means and includes without limitation sewer rate charges, permit charges, availability charges, connection charges and any rate or charge authorized by Minnesota Statutes, section 444.075 or imposed by this section. When unpaid charges are certified for collection with taxes the term "charges" includes a certification fee set by appendix IV and interest on the unpaid charges at the annual rate set by appendix IV. (Added, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 2)

710.21. Special rates; senior citizens and disabled persons. The council may by resolution establish maximum sewer and water use rates for senior citizens and disabled persons, qualifications for, and the method of administering such special rates.
