Section 715 - City water system
715.01. Utilities superintendent. The city manager may appoint a utilities superintendent who is to discharge the responsibilities imposed by this section, together with such other duties as may be required or assigned to that person.

715.03. General operation. The municipal water system is to be operated as a public utility and convenience from which revenue will be derived under the management and control of the city council, subject to the provisions of the agreement of the joint water commission. The system is to be operated and maintained in such a manner as to provide its service with maximum efficiency.

715.05. Use of water restricted to authorized persons. It is unlawful to make, construct or install a water service installation or make use of a water service that is connected to the water system except in the manner provided in this section.

715.07. Damage to water system. It is unlawful to remove or damage a structure, appurtenance or property of the water system, or fill or partially fill any excavation, or raise or open any gate constructed or maintained for the water system.

715.09. (Reserved, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 8)

715.11. Deficiency of water; shutting off water. The city is not liable for a deficiency or failure in the supply of water to consumers. In case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs or construction of new works, water may be shut off and kept shut off as long as deemed necessary by the superintendent.

715.13. Supply from one service. Not more than one housing unit or building may be supplied from one service connection except by special permission of the superintendent.

715.15. Tapping of mains prohibited. It is unlawful for a person except one employed or authorized by the city to tap a distribution main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or ferrules therein.

715.17. Repair of leaks. The consumer or owner must maintain the service pipe from the building side of the curb stop or building side of the building gate valve into the house or building. In the case of failure upon the part of a consumer or owner to repair a leak occurring in the service pipe within 24 hours after verbal or written notice from the superintendent, the water will be shut off and will not be turned on until a penalty charge has been paid and the leak repaired. If the waste of water is great or if damage is likely to result from the leak, the water may be turned off immediately pending repairs. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 9)

715.19. Abandoned services.
	a) Service installations that have been abandoned to not be used by property owner in the foreseeable future or have not been used for three years may be disconnected and plugged at the main by the city at the discretion of the city, and the related expense of the city will be charged to the property as an unpaid utility bill. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 10)
	b) As an alternative, at the discretion of the engineer, the owner may pay to the city the Alternative Service Abandonment Fee shown in appendix IV. This fee relieves the owner of any future responsibility for the abandoned water service instead of plugging the main at the owner's expense. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 10)
	c) When buildings are reconstructed or redeveloped and it is desired to increase or change the old water service, connections with the mains may not be made until all old services have been removed and the main plugged by the owner's authorized contractor after said contractor obtains the required utility street cut permit from the city, and any related expense of the city will be charged to the property as an unpaid utility bill. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 10)

715.21. Excavation and construction requirements.
	a) An excavation for the water system may not be made until a permit for the connection has been issued by the superintendent. The permit fee is set in appendix IV.
	b) Excavations for making a tap from city water mains must conform to Federal Register Part 2 Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 29 CFR 1926, Occupational Safety and Health Standards - Excavations: Final Rule. The excavations must extend to a depth at least 12 inches lower than the bottom of the water main. Ample clear space must be allowed for insertion of tapping machine. Excavations must be safe. If not determined safe by the tapper a tap may not be made. A safe ladder must be furnished by the contractor for use of entry, tapping, inspection and exiting.
	c) In compliance with the Minnesota plumbing code, separation of water service pipes and sewer service pipes must be no less than ten feet apart horizontally or may be placed in a common trench if the bottom of the water service pipe is kept at a minimum of 12 inches above the top of the sewer pipe at all points and the water pipe is placed on a solid shelf at one side of the common trench. A common trench may also be used without the separation requirements if the sewer pipe is of ductile iron, schedule 40 plastic, or SDR35 ASTM D3034 plastic pipe and the water pipe is of copper or ductile iron.

715.23. Private water supplies. It is unlawful to connect a water pipe of the water system with a pump, well, tank or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply. If such cross connections are found to exist, the owner or the owner's plumber must give notice to the superintendent and make an immediate correction of the problem. Failure to correct the problem will result in the discontinuation of the city's water supply by the superintendent.

715.25. Use confined to premises. It is unlawful to permit water from the water system to be used for any purpose, except upon that person's premises unless written consent is obtained from the superintendent.

715.27. Connections beyond city boundaries. Where water mains of the city are in any street or alley adjacent to or outside the corporate limits of the city, the city may issue permits to the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water mains to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the city, and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of this section and subject to the contract for the supply of water between the city and the city of Minneapolis or other municipalities. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 11)

715.29. Restrictions against sprinkling; other limitations of water use. Water customers and consumers are governed by the applicable regulations promulgated by the city of Minneapolis as to the limitations in the time and manner of using water and such other applicable regulations promulgated by the joint water commission affecting the preservation, regulations and protection of the water supply. If the city council determined that a shortage of water supply threatens the city, the council may by resolution limit the times and hours during which water may be used from the water system. It is unlawful to cause or permit water to be used for anything other than in home use during the period covered by the resolution. A daily penalty will be charged for this violation as provided in appendix IV. Charges will be added to that person's next utility bill.

715.31. Applications. 
	Subdivision 1. Applications for service installations and for water service are made to the city on printed forms as provided by the city. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 12)
	Subd. 2. Applications for service installations and for water service must be made by the owner or agent of the property to be served and state the size and location of service connection required. The applicant must, at the time of making application, pay to the city the amount of fees or deposit required for the installation of the service connection set in appendix IV. Applications for services larger than one inch must be accompanied by two sets of plans or sketches indicating preferred location or service pipe and size of service based on building demand.
	Subd. 3. When service connections have been installed, application for water service may be made to the city, either by the owner, agent, tenant or occupant of the premises. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 12)
	Subd. 4. The size of water service connections and meters must be approved by the superintendent. The water service may not be less than the size of the service pipe from the main to the curb stop. To better serve the building over a longer period of time, and because of future water usage such as yard irrigation systems, swimming pools and dishwashers, it is recommended that a one inch service pipe be the smallest service size. All services up to two inch must be type K copper with flared fittings for one inch and three part compression connection fittings approved by the superintendent for two inch diameter copper. Services larger than two inch must be ductile iron class 52 type designated by the city of Crystal standard specifications for water mains for the current year.
	Subd. 5. A meter yoke will be furnished to the contractor or plumber at the time a connection permit is issued. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 12)
	Subd. 6. The plumber must notify the inspection department within 24 hours after piping is complete and ready for meter and remote radio transmitter installation, giving street address and permit number. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 12)
	Subd. 7. Water billing starts at the time of installation of the water meter, or if the meter is not installed, seven days after completion of outside piping, the billing will be calculated upon the minimum quarterly rate prorated on a monthly basis.

715.33. Service charges. 
	Subdivision 1. A permit must be obtained from the city to connect to the existing water service leads at the curb stop box and interior plumbing. Permits will be issued only to a plumber licensed by the city. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 13)
	Subd. 2. Additional charges must be paid at the time of making application for restoration of street surface where a curb box and service lead is installed and the charges are as follows: (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 13)
		a) The fees for restoration of a typical road bituminous street or for the restoration of a higher type street, the fee will be set by appendix IV. If owner restores roadway all backfill materials must be mechanically compacted in 12 inch layers to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area in accordance with the Minnesota highway department standard specifications to the existing street grade, and fee will be refunded. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 13)
		b) The owner must install, or have installed, the service connections from the water main to the property line. Payment for the service connections must be made before the work is started. (Amended, Ord. No. 1022-1, Sec. 13)
		c) Service larger than two inch requires the owner to contract a qualified tapper who must be approved by the utilities superintendent. The tapping sleeves must be stainless steel. The sleeves must be mechanical joint or approved equal with a flanged outlet for connection to the tapping sleeve. The tapping sleeves must be as manufactured by Ford "fast tap" with ductile iron gland and stainless steel bolts or JCM model 432 stainless steel tapping sleeve, or approved equal. The owner must also provide valves and valve boxes. The valves must be resilient seat manufactured to meet applicable requirements of AWWA C500 and AWWA C109-80, as amended. The resilient seat valves must be Waterous, American, Clow or Mueller. The valve boxes must be Tyler 6860 or approved equal. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 13)

715.35. Damage to shutoff box. Before any grading or excavation is started, the water shutoff box must be located and checked for damage by the contractor. Location ties will be furnished by the superintendent at time connection permit is issued. If the shutoff box can not be located or is found bent or in a damaged condition, the superintendent is to be called at once. The contractor assumes all responsibility for damage to the shutoff box unless the superintendent certifies that damage existed before excavation or grading started.

715.37. Time for connections. If the plumber or contractor laying the service pipe fails to have the connection made at the time specified in the application, notice must be given to the superintendent fixing another day on which the plumber wishes to make connection. The notice must be given at least two days previous to the excavation for laying of the service pipe, and the connection must be made before 3:30 p.m. except in special cases, and then the work may be done only upon a written order from the superintendent. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 14)

715.39. Property Assessments. The permit fee for water main tapping will be paid for each connection in the amount specified in appendix IV. In addition, before any permit is issued the following conditions must be complied with:
	a) A permit will not be issued to tap or connect with any water main of the city directly or indirectly from any lot or tract of land unless the finance officer has certified:
		1) That such lot or tract of land has been assessed for the cost of construction of the water main with which the connection is made.
		2) If no assessment has been levied for the construction cost, the proceedings for levying an assessment have been or will be completed in due course.
		3) If no assessment has been levied and no assessment proceedings will be completed in due course, that a sum equal to the portion of cost of constructing said water main would be assessable against the lot or tract has been paid to the city.
	b) If the certificate cannot be issued by the finance officer, a permit to tap or connect to any water main may not be issued unless the applicant has paid an additional connection fee, equal to the portion of the cost of construction of the main which would be assessable against the lot or tract to be serviced by such tapping connection, including interest at a rate equal to the interest rate of 20 years or the amount of years the assessment was decreased, when it is determined by the public works director that the improvement was not subject to utilization until a later date. The assessable cost is to be determined by the director upon the same basis as any assessment previously levied against other property for the main. If no such assessment has been levied, the assessable cost will be determined upon the basis of the uniform charge which may have been or which will be charged for similar tapping or connection with the main, allocated on frontage basis, or both.

715.41. Location and installation of stop boxes and building gate valve. Curb stop boxes must be installed at a point on the property line most suitable to the property, and must be left in an accurate vertical position when back filling is completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of 7 1/2 feet below the grade established by the public works director. Type K copper tubing must be used for installation of water services. The curb stop must be mounted on a concrete block for a good base support. The building gate valve if wet tapped must be located next to the watermain within two feet and must remain at the same depth as the watermain. This will be considered the building shut off. Whenever possible a wet tap is recommended so as not to interrupt existing customers.

715.43. Supervision by plumber. Piping connections from curb box to house supply piping must be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber.

715.45. Turning on water. Only an authorized city employee may turn on or off any water supply at the stop box.

715.47. Accounts; how kept. Accounts must be kept on the books of the finance department by the house and street number and under the account number assigned thereto, and by the name of the owner or of the person signing the application for service. Bills and notices sent by the finance department will be sent to the house or street number of the property. If nonresident owners or agents desire personal notice sent to a different address, they must file an application therefor with the finance department. An error in address must be promptly reported to the finance department. Responsibility for a notice of change of ownership rests with the owner. For purposes of this section the term "owner" has the meaning given by subsection 105.01, subdivision 8.

715.49. Water rates. 
	Subdivision 1. Schedule. The rate due and payable to the city by each water user within the city for water taken will be charged consistent with the rates contained in appendix IV, payable periodically, subject, however, to a service charge to each water user for each period during which water service is furnished. This service charge represents fixed or capital costs associated with maintenance of the water system. The charges and units of water are set and defined by resolution of the city council on an annual basis in appendix IV. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 15)
	Subd. 2. Estimates. In the case that it is not possible to obtain a reading from the meter, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with the amount used previously in comparable periods of the past year. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 15)
	Subd. 3. Billing. Where service is for less than a full billing period, the charge will be prorated.
	Subd. 4. Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the territorial boundaries of the city will be determined by special contract. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 15)
	Subd. 5. Where a service pipe is connected to the stop box and laid into the building with no intention of connection to the building piping for use immediately the service charge set in subsection 715.49, subdivision 1 apply. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 15)
	Subd. 6. A meter must be installed on the street valve in the house and a remote radio transmitter outside regardless of whether inside piping is connected. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 15)
	Subd. 7. If a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the municipal water system, the regular or service charge continues until such date as the service pipe is excavated and disconnected at the stop box. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Section 15)
	Subd. 8. The service charge set forth in appendix IV does apply to any residence in which the owner and head of the household is receiving retirement survivors insurance or disability insurance under the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. section 301, as amended. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 15)

715.51. Payment of charges. Any prepayment or overpayment of charges may be retained by the city and applied on subsequent quarterly statements.

715.53. Penalty for late payment. Each billing for water service not paid when due incurs a penalty charge of 10% of the amount past due.

715.55. Action to collect charges. 
	Subdivision 1. An amount due for water charges may be certified to the taxpayer services division manager for collection with real estate taxes in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, sections 444.075 and 279.03. This certification will be made regardless of who applied for water services, whether it was the owner, tenant or other person. Applications for water service will contain an explanation in clear language that unpaid water bills will be collected with real estate taxes in the following year. The city may bring a civil action or other remedies to collect unpaid charges. (Amended, Ord. No. 94-14, Sec. 3)
	Subd. 2. For purposes of this subsection the term "water charges" means and includes without limitation water rate charges, permit charges, availability charges, connection charges and any rate or charge authorized by Minnesota Statutes, section 444.075 or imposed by this section. When unpaid charges are certified for collection with taxes the term "charges" includes a certification fee set by appendix IV and interest on the unpaid charges at the annual rate set by appendix IV.

715.57. Water meters. 
	Subdivision 1. Except for extinguishment of fires only authorized city employees may use water from the water system or permit water to be drawn therefrom, unless the same is metered by passing through a meter supplied or approved by the city. Only persons authorized by the superintendent may connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change, or cause to be changed, or interfere with any such meter or the action thereof.
	Subd. 2. A water meter fee must be paid by customers for the furnishing of water meters and remote radio transmitters by the city. The customer must pay the fee before the water meter and remote radio transmitter are installed by the city. The fee required is not a customer service deposit and is not computed with reference to or based upon service supplied; the fee is required to insure the safekeeping and proper maintenance of the meter only, and for no other purpose. The fee is set by appendix IV. The fee stands to the credit of the property where the meter is installed, rather than to credit of the owner of the property at the time of the original fee payment. The water meter fee is non-refundable. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 16)
	Subd. 3. The city will maintain and repair all meters and remote radio transmitters when rendered unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and replace them if necessary. However, where replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter or remote radio transmitter is rendered necessary by the act, neglect, including damage from hot water backup, freezeups, or carelessness of the owner or occupant of any premises, the expense caused the city thereby will be charged against and collected from the water customer. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 16)
	Subd. 4. A consumer may, by written request, have a meter (up to one inch) tested by the water department; at which time the owner may be present or have a representative present. If the meter is found to register within 2% of being correct, a charge will be made for making the test. If the meter is found to register 2% incorrectly, no charge will be made for making the test. If the meter is found to over-register more than 2%, there will be a proportional deduction made from the previous water bill. A water meter will be considered to register satisfactorily when it registers within 2% of accuracy. The charges for meter testing are set by appendix IV.
	Subd. 5. Meters and remote radio transmitter ownership. Except for additional or auxiliary meters, water meters and remote radio transmitters are the property of the city. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 16)
	Subd. 6. Accessibility. Authorized city employees and authorized contractors and authorized employees of the authorized contractors have free access at reasonable hours to all parts of every building and premises connected with the water system for reading, inspection and repair of meters and remote radio transmitters. Failure to provide access may result in one or more of the following actions: (Amended, Ord. No 2011-1, Sec. 16)
		a) Imposition, along with and in addition to other charges for service, a quarterly penalty charged as established by appendix IV.
		b) Termination of service to the premises.
		c) Billing and collecting for service to the premises on an estimated consumption basis whether or not meter readings are being obtained.
	Subd. 7. Commercial or industrial buildings must be metered with one master meter of adequate size, as approved by the superintendent. If additional or auxiliary meters are desired for recording the subdivision of such supply, the meters must be furnished and set up by the owner or consumer at the owner's or the consumer's expense, and the owner or consumer must assume all responsibility of reading, billing and maintaining same.

715.59. Water meter setting. Water meters must be installed in accordance with the following rules:
	a) The service pipe from the water main to the meter, when the same enters the building, must be brought through the floor in a vertical position.
	b) The meter must be located so that the bottom is not less than 12 inches above the finished floor line and not greater than 24 inches above the finished floor line. A full flow street side valve must be placed approximately 12 inches above the floor. In addition a gate valve or ball valve must be installed on the house side adjacent to the meter, or just above the meter yoke. Fittings and pipe are to be red brass or bronze. Full flow valves must be 125 pounds standard. The meter must be set not more than 12 inches measured horizontally from the inside line of the basement wall, unless an alternate method is approved by the superintendent. An approved yoke must be provided to support the meter in the proper vertical position. Meters larger than one inch must be set on a pedestal. The outside remote radio transmitter must be installed not less than three nor more than five feet above grade level and mounted on the side of the building five feet from the front. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 17)
	c) Meters two inch or greater in size must be equipped with a bypass line equal to one-half the size of the existing pipe size so that in the event a meter needs to be tested, repaired, or replaced, the building will still have a minimum amount of water supplied. The bypass line must be valved on each side, in addition to the meter valves and when completed must be sealed by the city utility department. This seal may not be tampered with and will be subject to a fine if seal is found tampered with or broken.
	d) Meter, valves and yoke must be kept readily accessible at all times. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 17)

715.61. Charges for the availability of municipal water. 
	Subdivision 1. The purpose of this subsection is to establish a system of charges for the availability of municipal water in order to provide for an equitable sharing of the cost of the municipal water system and is adopted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 444.075.
	Subd. 2. Properties in the city that (i) are improved and have water-consuming plumbing facilities and (ii) that abut upon streets or other places where water mains are located are subject to the charges provided for in this subsection.
	Subd. 3. Schedule of charges. Periodic charges may be made against all properties not connected to the municipal water system. Charges are set by appendix IV. Charges against properties not connected to the municipal water systems and not listed above will be made on the basis of the meter size which would be needed if the property were connected to the municipal water system, based upon sizes of meters installed on similar properties elsewhere in the city.
	Subd. 4. Accounts and procedures. Accounts will be kept, bills will be rendered and collected, and charges will be made for delinquent accounts in accordance with the procedures applicable to charges for municipal water.
	
715.63. Private hydrant service charge. There is an annual service charge, in appendix IV, for fire hydrants, payable by each owner upon whose property the hydrant is situated. These hydrants must conform to the type specified by the city. Any other type must be replaced by the owner and at the owner's expense. The charge covers a yearly maintenance program at which time the city will operate and lubricate the operating nut, nozzle caps and visually inspect all bolts and nuts that are above existing grade. Any replacement of parts will be billed to the owner at the owner's expense and will include city's cost for labor. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 18)

715.65. Water service; discontinuing of seasonal customers; freeze-ups. 
	Subdivision 1. Water service, discontinuing. A consumer desiring to discontinue the use of water must notify the water department.
	Subd. 2. Seasonal customers. There are no seasonal customers for water and sanitary sewer services. Charges are based upon the consumption of water. If there is no consumption for that month, a fee is charged according to the current rate schedule or the customer may have the water shut off and turned on at the curb box at the current fee.
	Subd. 3. Freeze-ups. Water breaks due to freezing lines, in which a residence is not in use, are the responsibility of the owner. The owner will be charged for all water consumption as well as any sewer rates. An owner may appeal their sewer billing to the city council.

715.67. Discontinuance of water service. 
	Subdivision 1. Grounds. Water service to a property may be shut off at a curb stop box by the city for the following reasons: (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 19)
		a) Violation of a provision of this code relating to the operation, maintenance or connection to the water system by any person; (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 19)
		b) Fraud or misrepresentation by an owner or occupant in connection with an application for service or for services provided under this section; (Amended. Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 19)
		c) Failure of the owner or occupant to pay rates and charges or other financial obligations under this section for water service when due. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 19)
	Subd. 2. Shut-off procedures. If the city manager determines that grounds exist for shutting off water service, the manager must notify the owner or occupant or both of the city's intent to shut off by mailed written notice not less than ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of shut-off. The notice must state that the owner or occupant or both may request a hearing before the city council at its next regularly scheduled meeting and that at the hearing the owner or occupant or both may present testimony as to why the service should not be shut off. The request for a hearing must be presented in writing to the city manager not later than the fifth day after mailing of the notice. A request from either the owner or occupant is sufficient to require the hearing. If a request for a hearing is received, the city manager may not shut off service until the hearing has been held and then only at the direction of the city council. If a request for a hearing is not timely received, the city manager may shut off the water service without further notice.
	Subd. 3. Emergency shut-off. The procedure in subdivision 2 does not apply to water shut-off for the reasons specified in subsection 715.17.

715.69. Fire services. 
	Subdivision 1. The construction of fire services must be made under the personal supervision of an authorized employee of the city. The cost of this supervision will be charged to the owner. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 20)
	Subd. 2. Private fire protection services may be constructed with detect meters. All outlet valves must be sealed, and the system approved by the water department, fire department and conforms with all building codes. Detector checks the same size as building piping must be installed in all fire lines with a rising stem gate valve on each side of the check. All fire service lines will be equipped with a Watts Model 909 backflow preventer or approved equal unless waived by the superintendent. This requirement includes, but is not limited to, annual testing to be performed by the owner, and a copy of such test to be presented to the city. Testing must be done by an accredited backflow preventer tester.
	Subd. 3. Fire protection systems may be opened in case of fire or for inspection, and may not supply water for domestic use, other than fire suppression purposes.
	Subd. 4. When seals on a fire protection system are broken the owner or occupant must notify the water department within 24 hours.
	Subd. 5. If more than one service is installed on the same premise, the piping of one may not be connected with the other, except with permission of the engineer. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 20)
	Subd. 6. The fire marshal may limit the size of fire protection services where the street mains are not adequately sized in order to protect public interest.
	Subd. 7. If the owner or occupant of any premises is found to be using water from a fire service for purposes other than fire protection, the water department may require the owner of the premises to furnish and install, at the owner's expense and under the direction of the water department, an approved water meter and radio and to keep the same in accurate operating condition. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 20)

715.71. Fire hydrants; permit required to use. 
	Subdivision 1. Hydrants are available throughout the city, but the use of a fire hydrant, unless authorized by the water department, is prohibited. Temporary service from fire hydrants is available for contractors. A hydrant rental fee is required for usage of a hydrant for small water users. A hydrant rental fee, along with a metered charge, is required for tank filling and prolonged usages of fire hydrant. The meter will be furnished by the water department. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 21)
	Subd. 2. Permits to use a fire hydrant will be issued for each individual job or contract, and for a minimum of 30 day periods as the superintendent may determine. The permit must state the location of the hydrant and will be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
	Subd. 3. The user must make an advance cash deposit per appendix IV to guarantee payment for water used and to cover breakage and damage to hydrant and water meter. The deposit will be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for use. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 21)
	Subd. 4. The user will pay a rental charge for each hydrant meter per appendix IV and the current water rates will be charged. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 21)
	Subd. 5. Hydrants may be opened only with a hydrant operating wrench. The hydrant must be fully opened in order to operate properly. (Amended, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 21)
	Subd. 6. The fire hydrant will be checked before and after the usage. Any damage done will be charged to the holder of the permit.
	Subd. 7. Hydrant meters not returned at the end of the construction season and kept over winter months will be charged an additional rental charge upon return of the meter. (Added, Ord. No. 2011-1, Sec. 21)

715.73. Senior citizen rates. The council may by resolution establish maximum water and sewer use rates for senior citizens and disabled persons, the qualifications for, and the method of administering the special rates.
