Section 720 - Street lighting
720.01. System established. The city street lighting system is established and continued. The system consists of street lighting facilities, whether owned by the city or otherwise, for which the city purchases and supplies electrical energy from a public utility.

720.03. Costs of system. The costs of the street lighting system are the actual costs as billed to the city by the public utility, plus 10% for administrative expense.

720.05. Billing; billing units. 
	Subdivision 1. Unit defined. For purposes of this section a billing unit is:
		a) a single family residence,
		b) an individual dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling, which must be considered to be 3/4 of one billing unit,
		c) each two dwelling units in a motel or hotel,
		d) each commercial or industrial office, store, plant, warehouse or institution,
		e) each school building, and
		f) each church building.
	Subd. 2. Billing. The service charge to be billed to each billing unit is determined by dividing the total system cost by the number of billing units. The city clerk is to send quarterly bills to each billing unit directed to the same person to whom city sewer and water billings are sent for that unit. If a billing unit is not connected to the city water or sewer system the bill is to be sent to the owner of the billing unit. Bills are to be sent to all such units whether occupied or unoccupied. In the case of vacant property or property upon which construction is in progress, a bill may not be sent until city water and sewer service commences, or might have commenced if the property were to connect to city water and sewer service, and such billing will be pro-rated for the period of actual liability for street lighting service.

720.07. Assessment of unpaid bills. On or before November 1st of each year, the clerk must list the total unpaid charges for street lighting service against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable. The council will then spread the charges against property benefited as a special assessment under Minnesota Statutes, section 429.101 and other pertinent statutes for certification to the director of property taxation of Hennepin county and collection the following year along with the current taxes. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-16, Sec. 1)
