Section 650 - Recycling
650.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section, the following terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Carryout collection service" means the collection of recyclable materials accumulated in recycling containers from a location at a dwelling unit other than the location designated by the recycling authority for regular collection.
	Subd. 3. "Dwelling unit" means a residential structure in the city that is designated by the recycling authority to receive recycling collection services.
	Subd. 4. "Generator," "mixed municipal solid waste," "recyclable materials," and "recycling" have the meanings given those terms in Minnesota Statutes, section 115A.03, subdivisions 12, 21, 25a and 25b, respectively.
	Subd. 5. "Recycling authority" means the official designated by the city manager to perform the powers and duties of the recycling authority as provided in this section. The recycling authority may be the administrator of the Hennepin recycling group joint powers entity of which the city is a member.
	Subd. 6. "Recycling container" means a receptacle designated by the recycling authority for the accumulation and collection of recyclable materials at a dwelling unit.
	Subd. 7. "Recycling collection services" means the collection of recyclable materials accumulated in recycling containers from a location at a dwelling unit that is designated by the recycling authority for regular collection.
	Subd. 8. "Recycling services" means recycling collection services, carryout collection services, and any other services provided to a dwelling unit in accordance with this section.

650.03. Recycling authority; powers. The recycling authority is responsible for supervising and controlling the collection, removal, and disposal of recyclable materials from all dwelling units in the city. The recycling authority may contract with one or more collectors or haulers for the collection, removal and disposal of some or all types of recyclable materials from dwelling units. The recycling authority may adopt and enforce additional rules not inconsistent with this section as necessary for the collection, removal, and disposal of recyclable materials, including but not limited to rules governing the days and hours of collection, the types of recyclable materials to be collected, the manner in which generators must prepare recyclable materials for collection, the recycling containers to be used, and the location of recycling containers for collection. The rules of the recycling authority are not effective until approved by the council.

650.05. Recycling rates; billings. 
	Subdivision 1. Rates. The council may establish rates for recycling services from time to time by resolution. By resolution the council may also charge the cost of recycling containers to owners or occupants of dwelling units as a recycling service.
	Subd. 2. Billing. Each owner or occupant of a dwelling unit must pay the rates for recycling collection services, unless an exemption is obtained as provided in this section. The rates for carryout collection services are payable by the owner or occupant of a dwelling unit who requests to receive the service according to the procedure established by the recycling authority. The amounts payable for recycling services will be shown as a separate charge on the utility bill for the dwelling unit and will be payable according to the same terms as those provided in this code for utility bills.

650.07. Assessment of unpaid bills. On or before September 1st of each year, the city clerk must list the total unpaid charges for recycling services against each lot or parcel to which they are attributable. The council may then spread the charges against the property benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as provided for current services by Minnesota Statutes, section 429.101 and other pertinent statutes for certification to the director of property taxation of Hennepin county and collection the following year along with the current taxes.

650.09. Rate exemption. 
	Subdivision 1. Exemption. A dwelling unit will not be billed for recycling collection services if the owner or occupant of the dwelling unit establishes that the recyclable materials generated at the dwelling unit are separated from mixed municipal solid waste by the generator, are separately collected, and are delivered to a final destination for reuse in their original form or for use in a manufacturing process.
	Subd. 2. Application. Application for an exemption must be made by the owner or occupant of the dwelling unit to the recycling authority. The owner or occupant must produce evidence to the recycling authority of the amount, by weight and type, or recyclable materials that are separated, collected and delivered for reuse in their original form or for use in a manufacturing process. The recycling authority may establish additional reasonable criteria for determining when an exemption will be granted. The recycling authority's decision to grant or deny a request for exemption is final.

650.11. Ownership of recyclable materials; scavenging prohibited. 
	Subdivision 1. Ownership. Recyclable materials are the property of the generator until collected by authorized city employees, collectors or haulers. Recyclable materials become the property of the city, authorized collector, or authorized hauler upon collection.
	Subd. 2. No scavenging. It is unlawful for a person, other than authorized employees of the city, or authorized collectors or haulers to distribute, collect, remove or dispose of recyclable materials after the materials have been placed or deposited for collection.
	Subd. 3. Penalty. A violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor and may be punished as provided in chapter 115 of this code. The public health sanitarian is authorized to enforce the provisions of this subsection.

650.13. Relation to other provisions of code. To the extent that the provisions of this section are inconsistent with the provisions of section 605 of this code, the provisions of this section govern.

650.15. Collection districts. 
	Subdivision 1. Establishing districts. At the direction of the council by resolution, the city manager may establish geographic districts in part or all of the city for refuse or recycling collection and may designate specific days on which refuse or recycling collection may occur in each district. The city manager may establish different days of collection for residential, commercial, and industrial premises located in the same district. The authorizing resolution must set forth standards for the city manager to use in establishing collection district boundaries. By second resolution the council may approve the collection districts and days of collection as established by the city manager.
	Subd. 2. Collection within districts. Where an approved collection district has been established, licensed refuse haulers must establish their regular collection routes and days of collection in a manner consistent with the approved collection district and specified days of collection. Violation of this subsection is grounds for revocation of the hauler's license. It is not a violation of this subsection to collect refuse or recyclable materials on a day other than the specified collection day, if the collection is for a missed pick up or is in a week in which a legal holiday occurs.

650.17. Yard waste. 
	Subdivision 1. A licensed refuse collector providing residential refuse collection service must separately collect and dispose of yard waste.
	Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this subsection "yard waste" means compostible material such as grass clippings, leaves, weeds, and other similar forms of organic material, but does not include trees, brush, branches, or similar woody material.
	Subd. 3. Information. Within 15 days after notification from the city, a licensed refuse collector providing residential refuse collection service must give the city manager a detailed description of:
		a) the manner by which the collector intends to separately collect and dispose of yard waste;
		b) the manner by which the collector intends to account for the amount of yard waste collected; and
		c) the method by which the collector will inform its customers of the yard waste collection program.
	Subd. 4. Disposal site. The collector must take the yard waste to a disposal site or transfer site, approved by the city manager for subsequent composting, landspreading, or both.
	Subd. 5. Records. The licensed collector must keep an accurate accounting of the amount of yard waste collected and must, within 30 days of the end of each calendar year, submit a written report to the city manager detailing the amount of yard waste collected and disposed of for composting or landspreading during the year.
	Subd. 6. If no yard waste disposal site or yard waste transfer site is available to haulers and provisions of this subsection do not apply, but haulers must comply with applicable state law including Minnesota Statutes, section 115A.931. Haulers must also meet the requirements of transfer or disposal sites.

650.19. Multifamily dwellings. 
	Subdivision 1. Recycling services. Owners of multifamily dwellings containing more than eight dwelling units must provide recycling collection services to all residents of the dwelling. Recyclable materials must be collected at least once per month.
	Subd. 2. Definitions. The term "multifamily dwelling" means a multiple dwelling, as that term is defined by Crystal city code, appendix I (zoning) subsection 515.03. The term "recyclable materials" has the meaning given by Minnesota Statutes, section 115A.03, subdivision 25a.
	Subd. 3. Recycling; notice. Owners of multifamily dwellings must provide notice to all new tenants of the opportunity to dispose of recyclable materials as well as the location of the disposal site.
	Subd. 4. Recycling; preparation. Owners of multifamily dwellings must provide information to all new tenants related to the proper preparation of recyclable materials for collection.
	Subd. 5. Recycling containers. Owners of multifamily dwellings must insure that stolen or broken containers for recyclable materials are replaced within a reasonable time.
	Subd. 6. Landfilling prohibited. It is unlawful for an owner of a multifamily dwelling or an agent or contractor of an owner, to transport for disposal or to dispose of recyclable materials in a solid waste disposal facility, or to contract for such transportation or disposal.
	Subd. 7. Penalties. Violation of subdivisions 1, 3, 4 or 5 of this subsection is punishable as a petty misdemeanor. Upon a third or subsequent violation of subdivisions 1, 3, 4 or 5 by the same owner, the violation is punishable as a misdemeanor. Violation of subdivision 6 of this subsection is punishable as a misdemeanor.
