Section 635 - Litter
635.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section, the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. The term "litter" means:
	a) Garbage, refuse and rubbish as those terms are defined in subsections 515.07 and 605.01 of this code; (Amended, Ord. No. 96-6, Sec. 1)
	b) The meaning given by Minnesota Statutes, section 609.68;
	c) Abandoned property in the form of deteriorated, wrecked or derelict property in unusable condition or left unprotected from the elements. The term "abandoned property" includes, but is not limited to, deteriorated, wrecked, inoperable, unlicensed, partially dismantled, or abandoned motor vehicles, trailers, boats, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines, household appliances, plumbing fixtures and furniture; and (Amended, Ord. No. 96-6, Sec. 2)
	d) Abandoned vehicles, junk vehicles, and unauthorized vehicles as those terms are defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 168B.011 and subsection 1315.05. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-6, Sec. 3; Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 1)

635.03. Prohibition; storage. It is unlawful to throw or deposit litter on private or public property in the city. Abandoned property may be stored on public or private property only in a garage or a storage building.

635.05. Duties of owners and occupants. The owner, lessee or occupant of private property, whether occupied or vacant, must maintain the property free of litter.

635.07. Authorized storage. Nothing in this section prohibits the storage of litter on private property in receptacles or containers which meet the requirements of section 610 of this code.

635.09. Removal of litter; procedure; collection of costs. 
	Subdivision 1. Notice; service. When there exists litter on private property, a notice to remove the litter may be served upon the owner, lessee or occupant thereof by the health authority. The notice must be served by registered mail, or by personal delivery. When the property is occupied, service upon the occupant is deemed service upon the owner; where the property is unoccupied or abandoned, service may be by mail to the last known owner of record of the property.
	Subd. 2. Notice; contents. The notice required by subdivision 1 must state:
		a) the nature and location of the litter;
		b) that the litter must be removed or properly stored within ten days of service of the notice; and
		c) that if the litter is not so removed or stored, it will be removed by the city and the cost of such removal assessed against the property.
	Subd. 3. Costs. The public health sanitarian must keep a record of all costs incurred by the city in the removal and disposition of litter pursuant to this section, including all administrative costs involved in the service of the notice required by this subsection, and must report such costs to the city clerk annually not later than August 1.
	Subd. 4. Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year the clerk must list the total costs incurred by the city under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable. The city council will then spread the costs against each property as a special assessment for collection as other special assessments in the following year, all as authorized by Minnesota Statutes, section 429.101 and section 8.02 of the city charter.
	Subd. 5. Notice; violation. Failure to comply with a notice to remove litter given pursuant to this subsection is a misdemeanor. (Added, Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 2)

635.11. Not exclusive. The authority granted by this subsection is in addition and independent of the authority granted and the procedure established by section 1315. (Added, Ord. No. 97-11, Sec. 3)
