Section 620 - Steam baths; public restrooms
620.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For purposes of this section, the terms defined in this subdivision have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Approved" means acceptable to the environmental health division following the determination as to conformance with established public health practices and standards. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. "Fitness center or exercise facility" means a business that provides physical training and exercise services to the public; the term does not include a hospital, nursing home, hospice, sanitarium, or group home established for the hospitalization or care of human beings licensed under the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, sections 144.50 through 144.69. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 4. "Public bathing and shower facilities" means facilities open to the public for the purpose of cleansing the human body. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 5. "Public rest room" means a facility open to the public equipped with a minimum of a flush water closet. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 6. "Relaxation center" means a business that provides to the public relaxation services; the term does not include a hospital, nursing home, hospice, sanitarium, or group home established for the hospitalization or care of human beings duly licensed under the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, sections 144.50 through 144.69 or those activities described in section 1195 of this code. Relaxation services means any combination of fitness, exercise, public bathing, steam bath and tanning services. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 7. "Steam bath" or "heat bathing room" means a room used by the public for the purpose of bathing, reducing, or relaxation utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, reducing or relaxing agent.
	Subd. 8. "Tanning facility" means a room or a booth that houses ultraviolet lamps or products containing such lamps intended for the irradiation of any part of the human body for cosmetic or nonmedical purposes. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 9. "Tanning equipment" means sun lamp products and ultraviolet lamps intended to induce skin tanning through the irradiation of any part of the human body. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.03. Restrooms required. Public buildings must be provided with adequate and conveniently located public restroom facilities for each sex. Public restrooms must be identified as such on or above the entrance door. Doors to public restrooms must be self-closing. A hand washing sink equipped with hot and cold running water under pressure and a sanitary towel dispense or hand-drying devise must be provided in a public restroom. (Amended, Ord. No. 95-15, Sec. 1)

620.05. Construction requirements. 
	Subdivision 1. Construction. Public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities must be constructed of materials including ceramic tile, quarry tile, or other similar materials that are durable and impervious of moisture, bacteria, mold or fungal growth. The floor to wall and wall to wall joints must be constructed to provide a sanitary cover. Other equipment and appurtenances must be of sanitary design and construction permitting easy and thorough cleaning. Each public steam bath, heat bathing room, reducing relaxation or fitness establishment must be provided with adequate and conveniently located showers and toilet facilities for each sex. Shower rooms and fixtures must be of sanitary design and easy to clean as set forth in this subsection. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. Ventilation and lighting. Mechanical ventilation and lighting that meet the requirements of the state building code of this code must be provided in public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. Sanitation. Other equipment or appurtenances used in connection with the public steam baths, heating rooms, reducing, relaxation, fitness or tanning establishments, restrooms and bathrooms must be of sanitary design and construction that permits frequent and thorough cleansing and sanitizing. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.07. Plumbing, gas and electrical installation. A steam bath or heat bathing room, rest room, or bathroom must be equipped with at least one floor drain installed in accordance with the Minnesota plumbing code of this code. Plumbing, gas and electrical installations and equipment must conform with the state building code of this code. Gas heating equipment producing hot air or steam for the steam bath or heat bathing room must be so designed as to have the combustion chamber completely sealed and vented to the outside or else located outside of the steam bath or heat bathing room. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.09. Maintenance of facilities. 
	Subdivision 1. In public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities, the floors, walls, ceilings, water closets, hand washing sinks, urinals and other equipment and appurtenances must be maintained in a clean condition and good repair. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. Public restrooms must contain hand-cleaning agents, sanitary towels or an operable hand-drying device and toilet tissue. Refuse receptacles, easily cleanable, must be provided and emptied and cleaned as necessary. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. Public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities must comply with the provisions of the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 4. Public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities must be equipped with a janitor's sink and closet that provides for the storage of cleaning supplies. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.11. Health and disease control. 
	Subdivision 1. Disease. A person affected with a disease in a communicable form, or while a carrier of such disease, or while affected with boils, infected wounds, sores, or an acute respiratory infection, may not work in or use the services of any public steam bathing rooms, heat bathing room, bathroom, reducing or relaxation establishment in any capacity in which there is a likelihood of such person contaminating surfaces with pathogenic organisms, or transmitting disease to other individuals; and no person known or suspected of being affected with any such disease or condition must be employed or permitted in such an area or capacity.
	Subd. 2. Personal cleanliness. Employees must wear clean outer garments, maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness, and conform to approved hygienic practices while on duty. They must wash their hands and arms thoroughly in an approved hand washing facility before starting work and as often as may be necessary to remove soil and contamination. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. Linens. Linens must be clean and laundered, handled and stored in an approved manner.

620.13. Submission of plans and specifications. Persons who construct, extensively remodel, or convert buildings or facilities for use as a public steam bath, heat bathing room, reducing, relaxation, fitness or tanning establishment, bathroom or restroom must conform and comply in their construction, erection, or alterations with the requirements of this section. It is unlawful to construct, enlarge, repair, move, convert or alter any public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities without first obtaining appropriate permits from the building and environmental health divisions. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.15. Inspections. The environmental health division must inspect public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities at least annually, but as often as deemed necessary, to enforce the provisions of this section. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.17. Temporary closing of public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities. The environmental health division may temporarily close any public steam baths, heat bathing rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, fitness, relaxation, exercise and tanning centers and facilities if a serious health hazard exists. A sign must be posted on such a facility that is termporarily closed indicating its closure. It is unlawful to remove the sign.

620.19. Operating requirements - tanning facilities. 
	Subdivision 1. A tanning facility must have on duty an operator adequately trained in the correct operation of the equipment so as to be able to inform and assist the public in its proper use. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 2. An operator must perform the following functions as a precondition to access by the public to the tanning facility:
		a) The operator must require each person desiring to use the facility to complete a form specifying all prescription medicines and over the counter medications that they are presently taking. The form must be kept as permanent record of the person's attendance and progress.
		b) The operator must require each person desiring to use the tanning facility to use the manufacturer's specified protective eyewear.
		c) The operator must instruct the user as to the proper position to maintain in relation to the tanning lamps within the facility, positioning of the safety railing, the manual switching device to terminate the radiation in case of emergency, and a recommended time of exposure.
		d) The operator must monitor the use of the equipment to ensure that the interior temperature does not exceed 100 degrees Fahrenheit.
		e) The operator must inspect the facility to ensure that the floors are dry. The floors must be made dry prior to each person's use.
		f) The operator must post signs and supply handouts warning consumers of the potential effects of radiation on persons taking medication, the possible relationship of radiation to skin cancer, and potential for eye damage.
		g) The operator is responsible for meeting and complying with sanitizing procedures for all sun lamp equipment (to include protective eyewear) after each consumer use.
		h) Equipment must meet the provisions of 21 CFR, Part 1040 and all subsequent amendments.
		i) Equipment must be operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications for that equipment. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 3. Convenient toilet facilities and dressing rooms must be provided in tanning facilities. Toilet facilities must include a water closet and handwashing sinks. Toilet facilities and dressing rooms must be clean and in working order at all times. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 4. The tanning facility must be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner and each tanning facility must be cleaned and sanitized after each consumer use with a sanitizer of a type and strength approved by the environmental health division. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 5. Timing devices or other safety devices are required in tanning facilities. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 6. The operator of a tanning facility must adopt, and instruct employees in, procedures to insure the reasonable privacy of users of the facilities. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.21. License required. It is unlawful to operate a public steam bath, heat bathing room, reducing, relaxation, fitness, tanning, or bathing facility, or engage in the business of operating any of these types of enterprises unless a license for the current year has been obtained therefor pursuant to this section from the city clerk. License fees are set by appendix IV. The license must be conspicuously displayed at all times in the licensed establishment. (Amended, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)

620.23. Applications, procedure. A person desiring a license must apply to the city council upon forms supplied therefor by the city clerk. The application must contain the name and address of the person making application, the location of the premises to be used and the name of the manager if other than the applicant. The license expires annually on December 31. The fee for a license for a portion of a year will be prorated based on the number of full or partial months remaining in the license year. The license is renewed annually on the anniversary date of such approval. The council may refuse to issue or renew the license of any owner or operator who is in violation of the provisions of this section or other local, state or federal rules, regulations or laws relating to the licensed premises or the person applying for the license. The license is valid only for the location stated in the license. In the event of a change of ownership of the facility, the new owner must apply for a license under this section. (Added, Ord. No. 96-15, Sec. 1)
