Section 600 - Public health sanitarian
600.01. Water supplies. The public health sanitarian must direct from time to time that samples of water be taken from private wells, from public wells and the public water system, from wells used by more than one family and from places to which the public is invited, frequents or is served. The sanitarian must have these samples analyzed and catalogued according to the standards established by the state board of health and make such recommendations regarding the water samples as deemed necessary to the manager.

600.03. Food, drugs and beverages. The sanitarian may inspect premises engaged in the manufacture, processing, distribution, storage or sale of food, beverages, drugs, liquors, milk, ice, or any other product or products that are intended for human consumption, as well as the utensils, dishes, containers used in the cleaning, preparation, serving or eating of any of the aforementioned products to insure the purity and cleanliness of the same or the sanitation, cleanliness of the premises, personnel and facilities, and to recommend to the owner or proprietor such changes as the sanitarian deems necessary.

600.05. Inspection powers. The sanitarian or sanitarian's designated agent may enter any building, conveyance, or place where contagion, infection, filth or other source or cause of preventable disease exists or is reasonably suspected for the purpose of inspection at any reasonable hour and during an emergency at any hour. The sanitarian may report and condemn as unfit for human habitation until corrected any building or residence which does not have an adequate supply of potable running water or where there is not in operation a flush toilet connected to the public sanitary sewer where such sewer is available. The sanitarian or sanitarian's designated agent may seek warrants to inspect property for public health and safety hazards. (Amended, Ord. No. 2001-04, Sec. 4)

600.07. Authority. The sanitarian may order the abatement of any condition or nuisance that may constitute a public health threat, cause of sickness or safety hazard to the general public, including children, or to persons working, living, playing or residing at or near the property or object in question. The sanitarian may quarantine any person or persons, building or structure when necessary. The sanitarian may order the removal or to proscribe areas containing dead or diseased animals, decayed or decaying vegetable matter, poisons, filth, explosives or dangerous substances or conditions dangerous to life or limb, or the extermination of rodents or vermin or any other disease-producing materials or the breeding of germs, harmful bacteria, or insects including flies.

600.09. Abatement of nuisances. If an owner, proprietor, occupant or agent refuses to obey an order, the sanitarian may give notice to the clerk of any dangerous, harmful, unhealthy or offensive condition setting forth:
	a) name of violator (if known),
	b) location,
	c) nature of condition, and
	d) the type of corrective action necessary.
The city manager must serve written notice by certified mail on the owner, proprietor, occupant (if available) or on the agent (if known), and post the notice on the premises. Notices must contain the following: In the event of failure to remove, abate, correct or eliminate the above condition as directed by the sanitarian within ten days from the date of the notice, the city will abate said dangerous, harmful, unhealthy or offensive condition at the expense and cost of the owner of the real property, and the violator is subject to the penal provisions of this code. The costs of abatement may be assessed against the lot or parcel of property on which the nuisance was located in the manner specified by Minnesota Statutes, section 429.101.

600.11. Power of arrest. The sanitarian has the power of arrest for violation of this code and any violation of state laws or regulations of the state board of health having the force and effect of law.

600.13. Non-interference. It is unlawful to obstruct, interfere with or impede the sanitarian in the performance of his official duties or to remove any sign posted by order of the sanitarian relating to any area or building without the prior approval of the sanitarian or the manager.

600.15. Definition. For purposes of this section, the term "public health sanitarian" means and includes the public health sanitarian and any officer or employee designated by the city manager to enforce the provisions of this section who has the authority to issue citations under section 960. (Added, Ord. No. 96-5, Sec. 1)
