Section 670 – Clandestine lab site (Added, Ord. 2005-21, Sec. 1)
670.01. Purpose. The city council finds that the existence of clandestine lab sites and chemical dump sites which may be found in the city pose a serious health and safety threat to the public through the exposure to hazardous chemicals and chemical residue resulting from the manufacture of controlled substances. The city council therefore determines that the regulation and abatement of clandestine lab sites and chemical dump sites is necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare.

670.03. Definitions. “Chemical dumpsite” means any place or area where chemicals, chemical reagents or precursors, or other substances defined as a controlled substance, hazardous waste or other waste materials are or have been located.
	“Clandestine lab site” means any place or area where a clandestine lab site, as defined by Minnesota Statutes, section 152.0275 as amended, exists. A clandestine lab site includes any dwellings, accessory structures, a chemical dump site, a vehicle, boat, trailer or other motorized or non-motorized vehicles or any other area or location where there is or has been the unlawful manufacture or attempt to manufacture controlled substances.
	“Controlled substance” means any drug, substance or immediate precursor in schedules I through V of Minnesota Statutes, section 152.02, or as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 152.021 and section 152.0972, as amended. The term does not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors or tobacco.
	“Emergency response” means any action related to the investigation and remediation of a clandestine lab site or as otherwise defined by Minnesota Statutes, section 152.0275 as amended.
	“Environmental health specialist” means the environmental health specialist or designee who is the official primarily responsible for the enforcement of this section and coordinating the response of other city officials and departments under this section.
	“Hazardous waste” means any chemicals or other substances used in the manufacture of controlled substances in a clandestine lab site, and the resulting by products from such manufacture, or found in a chemical dumpsite, which pose a risk to the health, safety and welfare of occupants, visitors or neighbors of the site.
	“Health official” means the city’s environmental health specialist or designee.
	“Manufacture” means the production or attempted production and any related process, of a controlled substance by any means, and the packing, packaging or any similar process related to such substance, on a location other than in a pharmacy authorized to manufacture controlled substances.
	“Minor” means any person less than 18 years of age.
	“Owner” means any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who owns, in whole or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat, trailer or other location associated with a clandestine lab site or chemical dump site.
	“Remediation” means the cleanup of a clandestine lab site or chemical dump site, and as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 152.0275, as amended.
	“Removal” means the removal of hazardous waste, chemicals or controlled substances from a clandestine lab site or chemical dump site, and as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 152.0275, as amended.

670.05. Law enforcement notice to other authorities. Upon identification of a clandestine lab site or chemical dump site deemed to place neighbors, visiting public, or present and future occupants of the affected property at risk for exposure to harmful contaminants and other associated conditions, law enforcement officials will notify the environmental health specialist, the West Metro Fire-Rescue District, and other appropriate municipal, child protection, and public health authorities of the property location, property owner if know, and conditions found.

670.07. Seizure of property.
	a) a clandestine lab site or chemical dump site is located inside a vehicle, boat, trailer, or other form of moveable personal property, law enforcement authorities may immediately seize such property, and after evaluation of the potential risk of transport, transport such seized property to a more secure location.
	b) personal property may not be removed from a clandestine drug lab site or a chemical dump site without prior consent from a law enforcement official or the environmental health specialist.

670.09. Action by environmental health specialist.
	a) Upon notification by law enforcement authorities of the existence of a chemical dump site or clandestine lab site, the environmental health specialist or other appropriate municipal or public health authority will issue a declaration of public health nuisance for the affected property and post a copy of the declaration at all probable entrances to the dwelling or property.
	b) Removal of the posted declaration of public health nuisance by anyone other than the environmental health specialist, public health official, law enforcement authorities, or their designees, is prohibited.
	c) The environmental health specialist will also attempt to notify the following parties of the declaration of public health nuisance:
		1) Owner of the property;
		2) Occupants of the property;
		3) Neighbors at probable risk;
		4) The city of Crystal Police Department;
		5) The West Metro Fire-Rescue District;
		6) Other state and local authorities, such as the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Minnesota Department of Public Health, which are known to have public and environmental protection responsibilities applicable to the situation.
	d) Any license issued by the city for the property is immediately suspended upon issuance of the declaration of public health nuisance. Such license will be reinstated only after full compliance with an abatement order.
	e) After issuance of the declaration of public health nuisance, the environmental health specialist shall issue an abatement order by certified mail, or at the option of the environmental health specialist, by personal service on the property owner to abate the public health nuisance as required by this section and section 670.13. The notice shall comply with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes, section 152.0275, subdivision 1, as amended. The abatement order will include the following:
		1) A copy of the declaration of public health nuisance;
		2) A description of the site and all portions thereof that are determined to be contaminated. The description may be in any form that readily identifies the contaminated portion of the site.
		3) That all portions of the site that are determined to be contaminated and a risk to occupants or visitors are immediately vacated.
		4) Notification of suspension of the rental license or any other license issued by the city, if applicable.
		5) That the owner commence and complete all testing and clean-up procedures and other required remedial actions on the site by dates specified in the Order or such other dates agreed to by the city, under guidelines established by and at the direction of the environmental health specialist.
		6) That the site may not be re-occupied or used in any manner until it has been remediated in accordance with the guidelines established by the Minnesota Department of Health.
		7) That if the owner does not commence testing and complete the clean-up procedures by the dates established in the Order, the City, its officials, employees, or agents will enter the property and provide for the testing and clean-up services at the owner’s expense.
		8) That the owner is responsible for all costs associated with the clean-up of the site including all costs incurred by the city and other public agencies, including the West Metro Fire-Rescue District, and that if the owner does not promptly pay those costs they will be assessed against the property and collected in the manner of a special tax.
		9) A summary of the owner’s and occupant’s responsibilities.

670.11. Declaration of property as a public nuisance.
	a) Upon the issuance of a declaration of public health nuisance, any property containing a clandestine lab site or chemical dump site is declared a public nuisance.
	b) No person may occupy, enter, or allow occupancy or entrance to property declared a public health nuisance under this section until such declaration is vacated or modified to allow occupancy.

670.13. Responsibilities of owner. Within ten days after the abatement order is mailed to the owner, the property owner must, at the owner’s expense:
	a) Properly secure and post the perimeter of any contaminated areas on the property in an effort to avoid exposure to unsuspecting parties;
	b) Promptly contract with appropriate environmental testing and cleaning firms to conduct on-site assessment, complete cleanup and remediation testing, including periodic follow-up testing to assure that the health risks are sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy of the property and structures located on the property;
	Crystal City Code 670.15 (Rev. 2005)
	c) Regularly notify the environmental health specialist of actions taken and reach agreement with the environmental health specialist on the cleanup schedule; and
	d) Provide written documentation to the environmental health specialist of the cleanup process, including a signed, written statement that the property is safe for human occupancy and that the cleanup was conducted in accordance with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes, section 152.0275, subdivision 2, as amended, and Minnesota Department of Health guidelines. The property may not be re-occupied or used in any manner until the environmental health specialist has obtained the written statement in paragraph d) above, and has confirmed that the property has been cleaned and remediated in accordance with the guidelines established by the Minnesota Department of Health.
	
670.15. Owner’s responsibility for costs. The owner is responsible for all costs associated with nuisance abatement and cleanup of the clandestine lab site or chemical dump site (“public costs”), including, but not limited to, costs for:
	a) Emergency response;
	b) Posting and physical security of the site;
	c) Notification to affected parties;
	d) Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment process;
	e) Laboratory fees;
	f) Cleanup and disposal services;
	g) Administrative fees;
	h) Legal fees; and
	i) Other associated costs.

670.17. City authority to initiate cleanup and recovery of costs.
	a) If, after issuance of the declaration of public health nuisance and the abatement order, the city is unable to locate the property owner or the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and cleanup, the environmental health specialist is authorized to initiate the on-site assessment and cleanup.
	b) The city may initiate on-site assessment and cleanup before the expiration of the ten day period in section 670.13 if the environmental health specialist deems the situation to be an immediate public health hazard.
	Crystal City Code 670.19 (Rev. 2005)
	c) The city may abate the nuisance by removing any hazardous structure, building, or otherwise, in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, chapter 463.
	d) If the city abates the public health nuisance or public nuisance, it may recover all public costs associated with such abatement. In addition to any other legal remedy, the city may recover public costs by a civil action against the person or persons who own the property or by assessing such costs as a special tax against the property in the manner that taxes and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 429.101, as amended.
	e) Nothing in this section is intended to limit the owner’s, occupants’ or the city’s right to pursue an action authorized by law to recover costs incurred from the persons contributing to or operating a clandestine lab site or chemical dump site, or from any other lawful source.

670.19. Penalty and enforcement.
	a) The city may enforce this section by means of any legal or equitable remedy available to the city for the abatement of nuisances found in state statute or city code.
	b) Any person violating any of the provisions of this section 670 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation exists after notice to the person of a violation of section 670 shall constitute a separate offense.
