Section 605 - Garbage and refuse (Repealed, Ord. 2004-09, Added, Ord. 2004-09)
605.01. Definitions. For purposes of this section, the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	"Approved" means acceptable to the health authority following the determination as to compliance with established public health practices and standards.
	“Compost” means the product of biological decomposition of organic matter accomplished by mixing and piling. “Compost” also means the physical structure in which the composting process takes place. Plant material that is neither contained nor maintained as provided in this section is not compost.
	“Dumpster” means a four-sided steel container or "roll-off" for temporary storage of refuse.
	"Garbage" means all putrescible animal, vegetable, or other matter that attends the preparation, consumption, display, dealing in or storage of meat, fish, fowl, birds, fruit or vegetables, including the cans, containers or wrappers wasted along with such materials.
	"Health authority" means the environmental health specialist or designated official public health sanitarian.
	"Manager" means the city manager.
	"Owner" means any person, firm, corporation, or other partnership or organization who alone, jointly, or severally with others may be in ownership of, or have charge, care, or control of, any premises or business within the city as owner, employee or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the title holder.
	"Pests" means any insects, vermin, rodents, birds or any other living agent capable of reproducing itself that causes or may potentially cause harm to the public health or significant economic damage.
	"Premises" means any dwelling, house, building or other structure or parcel of property.
	"Public health nuisance" means any activity or failure to act that adversely affects the public health.
	"Public place" means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, parks, public buildings, and other public ways.
	"Recycling" means the process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and reusing the materials in their original form or using them in manufacturing processes that do not cause the destruction of recyclable materials in a manner that precludes further use.
	"Recyclable materials" means materials that are separated from mixed municipal solid waste for the purpose of recycling, including paper, glass, plastics, metals, automobile oil, and batteries. Refuse-derived fuel or other material that is destroyed by incineration is not a recyclable material.
	"Refuse" means all putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste (except body waste) including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, abandoned automobiles, automobile parts, tires, demolition and construction debris, and market and industrial solid waste.
	"Rubbish" means non-putrescible solid wastes such as wood, leaves, trimmings from shrubs, dead trees or branches thereof, shavings, sawdust, excelsior, wooden waste, printed matter, paper, paper board, paste board, grass, rags, straw, boots, shoes, hats and all other combustibles not included under the term garbage.
	"Swill" means garbage which is wholly or nearly edible and usable as a food and has food value for animals or fowl, accumulating from animal, vegetable, or other matter wasted from clubs, hotels, hospitals, restaurants, and public eating places.
	"Vehicle" means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a thoroughfare including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
	Crystal City Code 605.03 (Rev. 2004)
	"Waste matter" means non-putrescible solid waste such as soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel, loam, stone, brick, plaster, crockery, glass, glassware, ashes, cinders, shells, metal and all other noncombustible material which has been or is to be discarded.
	"Refuse enclosure" means an enclosure capable of containing all refuse and garbage stored by an establishment between pickups. All refuse enclosure construction plans shall be approved by the building official.
	"Refuse enclosure - food service" is an enclosure constructed for sanitary temporary storage of refuse generated by food establishments. Food service refuse enclosure construction plans shall be approved by the health authority.

605.03. Refuse storage and disposal. 
	Subdivision 1. Containers required. The owner of any premises, and any other person having refuse as herein defined, must provide and keep on such premises sufficient containers for the storage of refuse accumulated on the premises between disposal or collection. Each such container must be water tight, must have tight fitting covers, must be impervious to pests, and absorption of moisture, and must not exceed 90 gallons in size unless otherwise specifically authorized in writing by the health authority. Refuse on any premises must be stored in the containers required. All refuse from demolition or construction sites must be stored in roll-off containers or dumpsters and may not be stored on the ground. Commercial, business, industrial, or other such establishments having a refuse volume in excess of two cubic yards per week and all six family and larger dwellings, must provide approved bulk or box type refuse storage containers or approved equivalent. These containers must be so located as to be accessible to collection equipment and so as not to require an intermediate transfer.
	Subd. 2. Sanitary disposal. Refuse must be disposed of in a sanitary manner as approved by the health authority and must not constitute a nuisance. Refuse must not be composted or buried except that composting in an approved rodent and fly-proof device or filling operations using approved fill materials and methods may be permitted. In no case may garbage be composted or buried.
	Subd. 3. Frequency and manner of collection. The contents of refuse containers must be collected once every week, or more frequently if necessary or required by the provisions of any other ordinance of the city, by a collector licensed hereunder. The collector must transfer the contents of the containers to the vehicle without spilling them, or if any spilling occurs, the collector must clean it up immediately and completely. Collection must be conducted in such a manner as to not create a nuisance. Upon each collection, the containers must be completely emptied and returned to the racks or stands where they are kept, and the covers of the containers must be replaced.
	Subd. 4. Placement of containers. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		a) Refuse containers shall be stored either inside a building or outside not more than three feet from a building. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		b) Containers shall not be placed closer to an abutting street than any wall of the principal building directly facing the adjacent street, with the exception of designated collection days. The city may allow an exception to this requirement if the property has topographic or other constraints that prevent it from conforming with this requirement. Requests for an exception must be made by the property owner or occupant to the city manager. The exception shall be issued in writing by the city manager and shall designate a specific location and any conditions or limitations being imposed by the city for the exception. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		c) Containers stored outside of a building shall be placed and kept in a neat and orderly manner. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		d) Containers may not be placed or maintained in such a way as to unreasonably interfere with the use of adjoining property. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		e) Containers kept outside must be placed in such a manner as not to permit entry of or harborage for pests and so maintained as not to be tipped over. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		f) Containers must be maintained in a reasonably clean condition at all times. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		g) Containers shall be placed at their assigned collection location the night before, or the day of collection. Containers shall be removed no more than 12 hours after the scheduled collection day. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		h) Containers must not be placed on public sidewalks or interfere with the removal of snow from roadways. (Amended, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
			EXCEPTION: Those properties with a sidewalk immediately behind the curb may place containers on that part of the sidewalk closest to the curb. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
		i) Refuse containers located in a manner not in conformance with section 605.03, subdivision 4 as amended by Ordinance No. 2005-17 at the time of its effective date, and located in a manner consistent with the code in effect immediately prior to the effective date of that ordinance, may remain in said location until such time as the property changes ownership or occupancy, at which time the placement of the containers must be brought into compliance. (Added, Ord. No. 2005-17, Sec. 1)
	Subd. 5. Defective containers. If, upon inspection by the health authority, a container is found to be in poor repair, corroded or otherwise defective so as to permit pests to enter, or does not meet other requirements of this section, the health authority must notify the provider or user of the container of the deficiency and must require repair or replacement of the container and must state a compliance date in the notice. If the deficiency is not corrected by said compliance date, the health authority may condemn the deficient container and affix a tag so stating such condemnation. It is unlawful for any person to place or deposit refuse in a container which has been condemned.
	Subd. 6. Dumpster location and requirements. A dumpster may not be located in any public place. A dumpster may not be located on any premises for more than three consecutive months during any 12-month period. The manager is authorized to issue temporary permits for placement of a dumpster on any premises for more than three consecutive months when in the manager’s judgment special circumstances exist justifying the issuance of the temporary permit and the purposes of this section will not be impaired thereby. The permit must be displayed on the dumpster or elsewhere on the premises. All dumpsters must have the current licensed collector's name, address and phone number in clearly legible letters no less than three inches in height. No fee is required for the temporary permit.
	
605.05. Refuse storage and disposal - commercial and industrial. 
	Subdivision 1. Dumpsters. Exterior storage of refuse, including recyclables, and refuse containers, including dumpsters, at buildings in property zoned for commercial or industrial uses must conform to the following rules:
		a) The refuse must be contained in a refuse enclosure or in the case of food establishments, in a refuse enclosure - food service.
		b) The exterior storage area must be constructed in compliance with subsection 515.49, subdivision 4 d) and 515.53, subdivision 4 d).

605.07. Refuse haulers regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. License required. It is unlawful to engage in hauling or conveying refuse, compost and recyclable materials, from a premises other than one's own domicile, in the city without a license. Each vehicle so used must be licensed. A person licensed under this subdivision who hauls recyclable materials must report the tonnage of recyclable materials collected. The report must be made quarterly to the city recycling authority as defined in subsection 650.01, subdivision 5 of the city code.
	Subd. 2. License procedure. Applications for license or renewal of license must contain a description of the types and makes of motor vehicles used for collection, a schedule of services to be made to the customers, the frequency of service to be rendered, and full information where and how the material collected will be disposed of, and any other information the health authority will require. Applications to provide routine weekly collection and removal of refuse from residences must provide complete collection of all refuse which normally results from day to day use of this type of property except furnishings, appliances, building or construction wastes and similar bulky wastes for which individuals must make special arrangements. The health authority may require vehicle inspection before processing the license application. Applications for license hereunder must be submitted to the health authority for review and recommendation. If the council is satisfied that the public need, convenience, and good order will be served thereby, it may grant a license to any such applicant meeting the requirements of this section. Fees for licenses are set by appendix IV.
	Subd. 3. Pricing requirement. Applications for license or renewal of license must contain a description of refuse collection charges. The charges must increase with the volume or weight of the refuse collected from a premises. The charges imposed on a premises that recycle shall not be greater than the charges imposed on a premises that do not recycle.
	Subd. 4. License classification. Licenses are issued for the following classes of operation:
		Class I Residential refuse collection vehicle
		Class II Commercial and business refuse collection vehicle
		Class III Residential and commercial refuse collection vehicle
		Class IV Rubbish, recycling and compost collection vehicle
		Class V Rendering collection vehicle
	Subd. 5. Insurance. Applicants for licenses or renewals of licenses must file with each application a copy of an insurance policy or policies and an endorsement, under which there is coverage as to each vehicle in the amount of $500,000 for bodily injury to each person; $1,000,000 aggregate per occurrence; and, $250,000 for loss or damage to property. Every policy must provide that it will not be cancelled or terminated for any reason without at least ten days' written notice thereof first being given to the city.
	Subd. 6. Vehicle license decals. Whenever a license or renewal has been granted hereunder, the health authority must furnish to the licensee a decalcomania for each vehicle. The decalcomania must be so worded as to signify that the vehicle is licensed by the city. The licensee must apply the decalcomania to the left forward side of the body in a clearly visible location during operation of the appropriate licensed vehicle or in another location as required by the health authority. Old, expired, or otherwise invalid decalcomania must be removed from the vehicle. Licenses are not transferable to another vehicle.
	Subd. 7. Vehicle specifications. Every vehicle used to collect refuse must have the name and phone number of the owner or operator painted on the body or placed on a durable metal or wood plaque attached to the body. The lettering must be at least three inches in height and the color of the lettering and of the background must be contrasting.
	Subd. 8. Vehicle construction. The body of a vehicle licensed hereunder must be constructed entirely of metal or the space in the vehicle in which refuse must be kept must be completely lined with metal. All joints must be effectively closed so that no dripping or leaking or drain off of water, liquids or any substance can occur. The loading space must be provided with a tight metal hood having an opening fitted with metal doors, or must be provided with a heavy tarpaulin or equivalent cover fitted with eyes, grommets, tie ropes, or hooks so that the cover can be held securely over the loaded refuse. A vehicle used for collection of garbage or swill must have a permanent metal cover. A vehicle must be equipped with the necessary hand tools for cleaning up spills as required by the health authority. All vehicles must be equipped with an audible electronic back-up alarm.
	Subd. 9. Vehicle maintenance. A vehicle licensed hereunder will be kept well painted, clean and in good repair. Every such vehicle used for collecting garbage, recycling, compost or swill must be cleaned every week or as often as necessary to prevent persistent odors and must be cleaned before being used for any other purpose. All vehicles shall display a current annual inspection decal as provided by the state department of public safety.
	Subd. 10. Vehicle loading. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, or other waste matter must be so loaded that none of such materials can jar loose and fall to the ground or street when the vehicle is in motion. Loose paper, trash, and similar materials must be so secured that they cannot be displaced by the wind or fall out of the vehicle. Containers used to carry refuse in or on any vehicle must comply with the requirements of subsection 605.03.
	Subd. 11. Service cancellation. A licensed refuse hauler must cancel service to any premises when the only container or containers thereon have been condemned and may cancel service for cause or when the party charged for the collection service is two months or more overdue in payment for such services. When a refuse hauler cancels service to any premises, written notice thereof must be served upon or mailed to the occupant, manager or owner of the premises and a copy of the notice must be mailed to the health authority.
	Subd. 12. Vehicle storage and parking. It is unlawful to park or store a refuse collection vehicle on a premises zoned for use as a single or multiple residence dwelling, within 100 feet of the premises, or within 200 feet of any food establishment, for purposes other than, or for periods inconsistent with, providing refuse collection at the premises. It is unlawful to park or store any loaded or partially loaded refuse collection vehicle on any premises within the city, except for the purpose of and for periods consistent with providing refuse collection at that parcel of property.

605.09. Refuse littering prohibited. It is unlawful to throw, scatter or deposit, or cause or permit to be thrown, scattered or deposited, any refuse, handbills, or other littering materials upon or in public or private lands, bodies of water, vehicles or structures within the city. A property owner must maintain the owner's premises and abutting sidewalks and boulevard areas free of refuse litter.

605.11. Public health nuisance abatement. Unless stored in containers in compliance with this section, any accumulation of refuse at any time and on any premises creates a public health nuisance. Such accumulation of refuse may be abated by order of the health authority and the cost of abatement may be accessed against the property from which such accumulation was removed, as authorized in section 429.101 of the Minnesota Statutes.

605.13. Composting. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. A compost must be maintained or contained in a manner to prevent it from becoming a habitat for pests and create objectionable odors.
	Subd. 2. Permitted contents. A compost may contain only plant material consisting of grass clippings, weeds, leaves, small twigs, evergreen cones and needles, wood chips, sawdust, and herbaceous garden debris.
	Subd. 3. Prohibited contents. The following materials may not be placed in a compost:
		a) garbage;
		b) refuse, except as provided in subsection 605.03, subdivision 2;
		c) rubbish;
		d) waste matter;
		e) fecal material;
		f) any matter of animal origin.
	Subd. 4. Compost; construction. A compost may be constructed of (i) wood, (ii) wire mesh, (iii) a combination of wood and wire, (iv) metal barrels with ventilation, or (v) commercially fabricated bins or barrels.
	Subd. 5. Compost; maintenance. The compost must periodically be mixed to incorporate air, properly mix wet and dry material, and promote rapid biological degradation. The compost must provide for adequate air circulation to prevent objectionable odors. The contents of the compost must be completely removed at least once a year.
	Subd. 6. Compost; location. A compost may not be placed closer than five feet from a property line. The compost may be located only in the rear yard of a residential lot and in the rear of commercial and industrial properties.
	Subd. 7. Technical assistance. The manager is directed to prepare informational materials to assist persons operating a compost in the efficient and odor free operation of a compost and to offer technical assistance to those persons on the proper operation and maintenance of a compost.
	Subd. 8. Nuisance. The operation of a compost in a manner that results in objectionable odors and the placing of prohibited materials in a compost is a public nuisance and may be abated as such under section 2010 of this code.

605.15. Wood piles. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. The outside storage of cut firewood for residential buildings is permitted in residential zoning districts of the city subject to the provisions of this subsection.
	Subd. 2. Number of stacks. There may be four separate stacks of wood on one residential lot.
	Subd. 3. Dimensions. Stacks of wood may not exceed five feet in height, four feet in width and ten feet in length. A stack must (i) provide for at least a four-inch space between the ground and the first layer of wood by using decay-resistant material, or (ii) be placed on a decay-resistant surface.
	Subd. 4. Location. Stacks of wood governed by this subsection may be located only in rear yards as defined in the zoning ordinance and may not be located on a property line.
	Subd. 5. Screening. A stack of wood located within five feet of the lot property line must be screened with a solid wall or fence.
