410.01. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For the purposes of section 410, the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Building" means any structure subject to the provisions of the state building code and section 400 of this code. The term also includes farm buildings and dwellings.
	Subd. 3. "Removal location" means a location in the city to which a building may properly be moved and on which such building may properly be located after such moving under the provisions of this section.
	
410.03. House mover's license. It is unlawful to move, remove, raise, or hold up any building within the limits of the city without a license to do so by the city. License fees are set by appendix IV of this code. Upon the filing of an application for a house mover's license, the application will be referred to the building official who must make an investigation of the qualifications of the applicant to carry on the work of moving, raising and holding up buildings and report findings thereon to the council. Upon a report being filed with the council and the execution of the required bond and its acceptance by the council such license may be granted or refused, in the discretion of the council. A license may not be granted to any person less than 21 years of age. (Amended, Ord. 2004-2, Sec. 8)

410.05. Insurance and bond. A house mover's license may not be issued unless the applicant first files with the clerk a policy or policies of insurance insuring the applicant against liability imposed by law in the limits of $100,000 because of bodily injury or death of one person per accident; $300,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons per accident, and $100,000 property damage liability per accident. The policy must provide that it may not be cancelled by the insurer except upon notice to the city. In case of cancellation of such insurance the license will be automatically suspended until the insurance has been replaced. A license may not be granted until the party applying therefor has given a bond in the sum of $3,000 with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the city attorney and the council, and conditioned that the party will save, indemnify and keep harmless, the city against all liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses, that in any way accrue against the city in consequence of the granting of the license, including the cost of the city for the services of public utility maintenance personnel necessitated by the moving of any building, and will comply with the provisions of this section and with the conditions of any permits which may be issued to them.

410.07. Building moving permit. 
	Subdivision 1. Prohibition. It is unlawful for a licensed house mover to move a building over, along or across any highway, street or alley in the city without first obtaining a building moving permit from the building safety division. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 9).
	Subd. 2. Application. A person seeking issuance of a permit must file an application with the building safety division on forms provided by the building safety division. The application must set forth the following information: (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 9)
		a) A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving street number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms and condition of exterior and interior, and photographs, showing ground and street elevations;
		b) A legal description of the premises from which the building is to be moved;
		c) A legal description of the premises to which it is proposed the building be moved, if located in the city;
		d) The portion of the premises to be occupied by the building when moved if located in the city;
		e) The highways, streets and alleys over, along or across which the building is proposed to be moved;
		f) The proposed moving date and hours; and any additional information which the department finds necessary to make a determination of whether a permit should be issued.
	Subd. 3. Filing date of application. The application for a building moving permit must be made at least 30 days prior to the proposed moving date in order to allow the departmental personnel to make the inspection required.
	Subd. 4. Certificate of non-incumbrance. The owner of the building to be moved must file with the application sufficient evidence that the building and lot from which it is to be removed are free of any mortgages, liens or other encumbrances and that all taxes and any other charges against the real and personal property are paid in full.
	Subd. 5. Certificate of ownership or entitlement. The applicant must file with the application a written statement or bill of sale or other sufficient evidence that the applicant is entitled to move the building.
	Subd. 6. Permit fee. The application must be accompanied by the permit fees required by appendix IV of this code together with a sufficient sum, as estimated by the building inspector, to cover all other charges required under the terms of this section.

410.09. Deposit for expense. 
	Subdivision 1. Amount. Upon receipt of an application for a building moving permit, the department will compute an estimate of the expenses that will be incurred in removing and replacing any electric wires, street lamps or pole lines belonging to the city or any other property of the city, the removal and replacement of which will be required by reason of the moving of the building through the city, together with the cost of materials necessary to be used in making such removals or replacements. Prior to issuance of the permit the building official will require of the applicant a deposit of a sum of money equal to the amount of the estimated expenses. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 10)
	Subd. 2. Accounting. After the building has been removed, the building safety division must furnish the clerk with a written statement of all expenses incurred in removing and replacing all property belonging to the city and of all material used in the making of the removal and replacement together with a statement of all damage caused to or inflicted upon property belonging to the city. If any wires, poles, lamps or other property are not located in conformity with this code, the permittee is not liable for the cost of removing them. The clerk may authorize the building safety division to return to the applicant all deposits after the deduction of a sum sufficient to pay for all of the costs and expenses and for all damage done to property of the city by reason of the removal of the building. Permit fees deposited with the application will not be returned. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 10)
	Subd. 3. Expenses above deposit. The permittee is liable for any expense, damage or costs in excess of deposited amounts or securities. The city attorney must prosecute an action against the permittee in a court of competent jurisdiction for the recovery of such damages, costs or expenses.
	Subd. 4. Unsafe premises. The city will do the work necessary to leaving the original premises in a safe and sanitary condition if the permittee does not comply with the requirements of this section. The cost thereof will be charged against the house mover's deposit.
	
410.11. Duties of building official. 
	Subdivision 1. The building official has the powers and duties enumerated in this subsection in connection with building moving. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 11)
	Subd. 2. Inspection. The building official must inspect the building, wherever located, and the applicant's equipment to determine whether the standards for issuance of a permit are met. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 11)
	Subd. 3. Standards. The building official must refuse to issue a permit if it is found that: (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 11)
		a) any application requirement or any fee or deposit requirement has not been complied with;
		b) the building is too large to move without endangering persons or property in the city;
		c) the building is in such a state of deterioration or disrepair or is otherwise so structurally unsafe that it could not be moved without endangering persons and property in the city;
		d) the building is structurally unsafe or unfit for the purpose for which moved, if the removal location is in the city;
		e) the applicant's equipment is unsafe and that persons and property would be endangered by its use;
		f) zoning regulations or other portions of this code would be violated by the building in its removal location;
		g) for any reason persons or property in the city would be endangered by the moving of the building;
		h) the building to be moved is not worth at least 50% of the cost of a similar new building;
		i) the building in its removal location would fail to comply in any respect with any provision of this code or that proper assurances of future compliance have not been given.
	Subd. 4. Permit fees and deposits. The department must deposit all fees and deposits with the city in the same manner as all other receipts to the city are deposited. If the building official refuses to issue the permit, all deposits, bonds and insurance policies will be returned to the applicant. Permit fees filed with the application will not be returned. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 11)
	Subd. 5. Designate streets for removal. The department must obtain from the director of public works a list of designated streets, railroad crossings and bridges over which the building may be moved. The list must be approved by the chief of police and reproduced on the permit. In making their determinations, the director and the chief must assure maximum safety to persons and property in the city and minimize congestion and traffic hazards on public streets.
	
410.13. House mover's duties. 
	Subdivision 1. General. Permittees under this section must conform to the provisions of this subsection.
	Subd. 2. Designated streets. The permittee must move a building only over streets designated for such use in the written permit.
	Subd. 3. Changes. The permittee must notify the building inspector in writing of a desired change in moving date and hours as proposed in the application.
	Subd. 4. Damage. The permittee must notify the building inspector of any and all damage done to property belonging to the city within 24 hours after the damage or injury has occurred.
	Subd. 5. Warning signals. The permittee must display red lights on every side of the building during the nighttime and red flags during the daytime while building is being moved or standing on a street, in such manner as to warn the public of the obstruction, and must where necessary erect and maintain barricades across the streets in a manner to protect the public from damage or injury by reason of the removal of the building.
	Subd. 6. Time limit. The permittee must remove the building from the city streets after four days of presence thereon, unless an extension is granted by the department.
	Subd. 7. Other provisions. The permittee must comply with the building code, the zoning regulations, and all other applicable portions of this code.
	Subd. 8. Police protection. The permittee must pay the expense of a traffic officer, ordered by the chief of police, to accompany the movement of the building to protect the public from injury at the rate specified in appendix IV of this code.
	Subd. 9. Restoration of premises. The permittee must remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing grade at the original building site, when located in the city, so that the premises are left in a safe and sanitary condition.
	
410.15. Miscellaneous building moving conditions. 
	Subdivision 1. Other requirements. In addition to other provisions of this section, the provisions of this subsection apply to the moving of buildings within the city.
	Subd. 2. Land covenants. Where the removal location of any building is known by the building official to be subject to any restrictive covenants of record, the building official must not issue a permit under the provisions of this section until satisfied that all of the terms and conditions of the covenants have been complied with. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 12)
	Subd. 3. Neighborhood conformity. A permit may not be issued unless the building official is satisfied that the building moved will in its removal location conform to the general character and to the type of architecture of the neighborhood. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 12)
	Subd. 4. Non-interference. This section does not affect, abrogate, or annul any easement, covenant, or other agreement between parties. If this section imposes a greater restriction than is imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or by easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this section control.
	Subd. 5. Additional fees. The applicant must pay, in addition to all other required fees, an additional fee for mileage traveled by each inspector of the building safety division in making any inspection under the provisions of this section or any other ordinance of the city computed from the city hall to the site, location or premises where an inspection is to be made, together with an hourly fee for each inspector for the time spent in connection with the inspection. The charges are computed at the rates specified in appendix IV. (Amended, Ord. No. 2004-2, Sec. 12)
