Section 500 - Planning commission
500.01. Commission. The planning commission has the powers and duties assigned to it by Minnesota Statutes, section 462.351 to 462.365 and this code. The planning commission is the planning agency of the city.

500.03. Amendments. The planning commission upon its own motion may and at the direction of the council must prepare proposed changes in the zoning code, the comprehensive municipal plan, the subdivision regulations, and other official controls of the city. The procedures for the adoption of these changes is that specified for the amendment of the zoning code in section 515 (appendix I) of this code and law.

500.05. Uniform development and improvement standards. 
	Subdivision 1. Declaration. The public health, safety and welfare require that uniform standards be established for the development and improvement of property 
		(i) in non-residential zoning districts, 
		(ii) of property in residential zoning districts that is improved with, or proposed to be improved with, a building or structure other than a single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling, and 
		(iii) in connection with the issuance of a building permit and the granting of a conditional use permit or variance, or the rezoning of property. The city council finds that development and improvement of such property causes a substantial impact on public facilities such as transportation, utilities and parks. Uniform standards are necessary to ensure the orderly development and improvement of such property.
	Subd. 2. Procedure. The city council will consider and review each building permit application for proposed construction on property in a non-residential zoning district or on property in a non-residential zoning district or on any property in a residential zoning district that is improved with, or proposed to be improved with, a building or structure other than a single-family or two-family dwelling. The application must be referred to the planning commission and city engineer for review and comment.
	Subd. 3. City engineer's report. The city engineer must review the application to determine whether any on-site or off-site improvements are required as a result of the proposed construction. The engineer must consider such items as grading, gravel base, blacktop, boulevard sodding, sidewalk, curb and gutter, drainage, parking area, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, catch basin, sewer connections, water mains, property lines, buffer zones and other items of a similar nature including street, alley, utility and drainage easements. The city engineer will report the findings to the planning commission.
	Subd. 4. Planning commission evaluation. The planning commission must study and evaluate the proposed construction and the report of the city engineer. The planning commission may recommend approval or disapproval of the application. The planning commission may recommend approval subject to such conditions that are necessary and reasonable for the orderly development of the property consistent with sound municipal planning. 
	Subd. 5. City council action. The city council will review the recommendation of the planning commission and the report of the city engineer and adopt the recommendations that it determines to be necessary and proper as standards for the development of the property. The city council must specifically enumerate the conditions and work to be performed by the applicant. The city council must determine whether the city will undertake to perform all or any part of construction requirements located in the street, taking into consideration available financing and other improvements scheduled; otherwise such work is to be done by the applicant. If the applicant is not able to complete the work requirements or conditions the applicant may, in lieu thereof, enter into an agreement with the city to post a bond of sufficient amount satisfactory to the city guaranteeing the performance of such work requirements and conditions in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the city.
	Subd. 6. Policy. The city council may by resolution adopt policies regarding the nature and extent of off-site improvements required under this subsection.
	Subd. 7. Definitions. To the extent applicable, the terms and definitions contained in Crystal code (appendix I - zoning), section 515 apply to this chapter.
