Subdivision regulations
505.01 Title. This section may be cited and referred to as the Crystal subdivision regulations.

505.03. Subdivision regulations. 
	Subdivision 1. Purpose. The city finds that regulation of the subdivision of real property in the city is necessary for the following purposes:
		a) to insure the orderly, economic, and safe development of land in the city;
		b) to insure the adequate and timely provision of urban services and facilities; and
		c) to protect and promote the public health, safety, and welfare.
	Subd. 2. Scope. This section is adopted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 462.358. A proposed subdivision of property in the city must be submitted to the city for review and approval before being filed for record with the appropriate county officer as defined in this section. The provisions of this section apply to property or a project to which the Minnesota condominium law, Minnesota Statutes, chapter 515 applies.
	
505.05. Restrictions. 
	Subdivision 1. General rule. It is unlawful for a person to convey land or to attempt to file for record a conveyance of land that is described by metes and bounds, or by reference to an unapproved subdivision plat or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey unless otherwise authorized by this section or approved by the council. This provision does not apply to a conveyance of land described in Minnesota Statutes, section 462.358, subdivision 4b.
	Subd. 2. Building permits. A building permit or other permit will not be issued by the city for the construction of a building, structure, or other improvement to land in the city unless the requirements of this section have been complied with.
	Subd. 3. Taxes. A proposed subdivision of land will not be considered by the city unless past due taxes and special assessments thereon have been paid in full or arrangements for their payment satisfactory to the city have been made.
	Subd. 4. Flood hazard. Land will not be subdivided if the council determines that the land is unsuitable for development because of flood hazard unless corrective measures consistent with subsection 515.47 of the zoning code can be feasibly accomplished.
	Subd. 5. Conditions. The city council may impose additional conditions on subdivisions where deemed necessary for the protection and promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
	
505.07. Conflicts. Where the requirements of this section are either more or less restrictive than comparable requirements imposed by other pertinent laws, ordinances, statutes, or other regulations, the regulations that are more restrictive or impose higher standards govern.

505.09. Definitions. 
	Subdivision 1. For the purposes of this section the terms defined in this subsection have the meanings given them.
	Subd. 2. "Alley" means public or private right-of-way designed to serve primarily as a means of secondary access to the side or rear of adjacent properties whose principal frontage is on a street.
	Subd. 3. "Applicant" means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or the owner's designated representative. Where the applicant is not the owner of the land the written consent of the owner is required, accompanied by a statement of the representative's legal interest, if any, in the land.
	Subd. 4. "Appropriate county officer" means the county recorder of Hennepin county or the registrar of titles of Hennepin county.
	Subd. 5. "Block" means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets, railroads, waterways, other natural barriers, the exterior boundary of the subdivision or any combination of the preceding. 
	Subd. 6. "Building" means any structure which is built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
	Subd. 7. "Comprehensive plan" means the formally adopted comprehensive development plan of the city, composed of maps, charts, diagrams, and text describing and explaining the recommended policies and programs to guide the city's future development and redevelopment.
	Subd. 8. "Director" means the person designated by the city manager to administer the provisions of this section.
	Subd. 9. "Easement" means a grant by a property owner to either the public or an individual for the use of a portion of the owner's property for certain specified purposes (e.g., drives, utilities, etc.)
	Subd. 10. "Lot" means the smallest unit of land created by a subdivision that meets minimal requirements of both this section and the zoning code: each lot is individually depicted and numbered on the subdivision plat.
	Subd. 11. "Lot split" means the subdivision of an existing lot of record: this may include creating new lots for building purposes or dividing a lot for combination with existing, adjacent, lots of record.
	Subd. 12. "Outlot" means unbuildable land so delineated on a plat.
	Subd. 13. "Parcel" means a parcel of land of any legal description or size.
	Subd. 14. "Parcel of record" means a parcel of land of any legal description or size that is recorded with the appropriate county officer.
	Subd. 15. "Plat, final" means the final, formally approved layout of the proposed subdivision showing the same information as the preliminary plat, complying with the requirements of this section and any additional requirements imposed by the council, and prepared in the form required by the appropriate county officer and by Minnesota Statutes, section 506.
	Subd. 16. "Plat, preliminary" means a tentative layout of the proposed subdivision prepared for the purpose of formal review by the city; the preliminary plat shows lots, blocks, streets, and other features relevant to the development of the property, but not in the detail or final form of the final plat.
	Subd. 17. "Plat, sketch" means a rough drawing of a proposed subdivision intended for informal review by the city; the sketch plat is not typically drawn as accurately as the preliminary plat and usually does not contain all the information normally required of a preliminary plat.
	Subd. 18. "Restrictive covenant" means a contract or agreement entered into between private parties establishing restrictions on the development or use of property other than those established by this section or the zoning code. 
	Subd. 19. "Street" means a public or private right-of-way designed to serve as a means of principal access to adjacent properties and includes a public or private right-of-way that is not an alley.
	Subd. 20. "Subdivision" means, as a verb, the process of separating a parcel of land into two or more parcels for the purpose of building or conveyance including the division of previously subdivided property; as a noun, the term means the product resulting from the separation of a parcel into two or more parcels: the term also includes activity regulated by the Minnesota condominium law.
	Subd. 21. "Survey, certified" means a scaled drawing prepared by a registered land surveyor of a parcel indicating the location and dimension of property lines and, if appropriate, the location and dimensions of existing or proposed buildings; a survey visually depicts a parcel's legal description and may also show additional information such as topographic data and the location of recorded easements.
	Subd. 22. "Zoning code" means section 515 of this code contained in appendix I (zoning).
	Subd. 23. When the term "findings of fact" is used in this section the term means written findings embodied in a resolution of the body making the findings.
	
505.11. Procedures. 
	Subdivision 1. General. Except as provided in subsection 505.13 when land in the city is proposed to be subdivided, the owner of the land or the owner's authorized representative must apply for and secure approval of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedure:
		a) sketch plat (optional);
		b) preliminary plat; and
		c) final plat. Subdivision review will be carried out simultaneously and coordinated with applicable flexible zoning regulations and flood plain regulations contained in the zoning code.
		
505.13. Procedural exceptions. 
	Subdivision 1. Parcel combinations. Combinations of adjacent complete parcels of record may be approved administratively by the director. When a combination is requested for the purpose of obtaining a building permit, or for the purpose of meeting minimum development standards imposed by this section or any other provision of this code, the city must be provided with 
		(i) satisfactory evidence that the combination has been recorded with the appropriate county officer, 
		(ii) a signed, notarized affidavit stating the purpose for which the combination is requested, and 
		(iii) a certified survey of the lots to be combined as deemed necessary by the director. When a combination is requested solely for the purpose of receiving a single tax statement for adjacent parcels, the applicant must present satisfactory evidence that the parcels involved are complete parcels of record. There is no fee for a parcel combination. 

	Subd. 2. Division; tax parcels. The division of a parcel of record that was combined for the sole purpose of receiving a single tax statement may be approved administratively by the director. The applicant must submit 
		(i) satisfactory evidence that the previous combination was made solely for the purpose of receiving a single tax statement, 
		(ii) satisfactory evidence that the proposed manner of division corresponds to the legal descriptions of the parcels which existed prior to the combination, and 
		(iii) a certified survey of the parcels being divided as deemed necessary by the director to show the lots in the division meet all current code requirements. The director may require that a proposed division of tax combined real estate follow the procedures for either a lot split or a normal subdivision plat. There is no fee for a parcel division.  
	Subd. 3. Lot splits. Lot splits may be approved by submission of a certified survey and legal description indicating the proposed manner of division, provided that the division can be described in fractional or proportional parts by reference to the legal descriptions existing of record on the date of the request. A lot split will not be approved for a parcel described by metes and bounds. Lot splits require council approval, following review and recommendation by the planning commission. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 462.358, approval of a lot split by the council is deemed to include waiver of the prohibitions against conveyance of property as contained in subsection 

505.05 of this section. Lot splits are approved by the city council following the same hearing procedures required for a normal subdivision. The director may waive the technical information requirements of a normal subdivision determined to be unnecessary. The normal preliminary plat and final plat procedures will be waived. The director may require that a proposed lot split be processed by means of the normal subdivision plat procedure. Submission of a lot split for approval must be accompanied by the same fee required for a plat. 

505.15. Sketch plats. 
	Subdivision 1. Submission. When a subdivision of property is proposed, a sketch plat may, in the director's judgment, be prepared and submitted for review. Submission of a sketch plat is not normally required, but is encouraged. The director may require a sketch plat if the proposed subdivision presents substantial problems or difficulties on its face.
	Subd. 2. Initiation. Submission of a sketch plat is the initiation of the plat approval process.
	Subd. 3. Content. The sketch plat must be a conceptual plan of the proposed subdivision.
	Subd. 4. Review and approval. Sketch plats are reviewed by the director and, upon the request or approval of the applicant, by the planning commission. Sketch plat review is for the purpose of identifying potential problems, suggesting design considerations and otherwise discussing the requirements of this section, other ordinances and the comprehensive plan and their objectives as they apply to the parcel of land contained in the application. The review of a submitted sketch plat is for purposes of discussion and comment only. The applicant may not infer any future approval of a preliminary or final plat based upon the sketch plan review. Vested rights to a particular subdivision plan do not accrue because of favorable comments made by either the director or the commission. 

505.17. Preliminary plats. 
	Subdivision 1. Submission. Except as provided in subsection 505.13, when a subdivision of property is proposed, a preliminary plat must be prepared and submitted by the applicant for approval. Requests for review and approval of preliminary plats are filed with the director on an approved application form, accompanied by ten copies of the plat and other required information items. Application must be made at least two weeks prior to the planning commission meeting at which formal action is requested.
	Subd. 2. Fee. The fee for preliminary plat review and approval is set in appendix IV.
	Subd. 3. Content. The application must include the following:
		a) a location map outlining the area to be subdivided and its relation to the remainder of the city.
		b) a location map outlining the area to be subdivided and its relation to adjacent properties.
		c) the names and addresses of owners of property located within 350 feet of the exterior boundaries of the proposed subdivision.
		d) an existing site schematic, drawn to the same scale as the preliminary plat, showing:
			1) north arrow, scale, and acreage of the subject property;
			2) existing topographic contours at intervals of five feet or less, as determined by the director, for the property and adjacent properties;
			3) existing streets, utilities, and public facilities (e.g., schools, parks, etc.) on the property and adjacent properties;
			4) unusual topographic or physiographic features, including, but not limited to, waterways, steep slopes, wooded areas, etc.;
			5) existing easements, public and private, on the property and the purposes for which they are provided.
		e) a preliminary plat drawn to a scale of not greater than one inch to 100 feet (1" = 100') embodying the design standards provided for by subsection 505.31 showing:
			1) north arrow and scale;
			2) names and addresses of persons who prepared the plat;
			3) proposed topographic contours at the same interval as contained on the existing site schematic; 
			4) proposed streets, utilities, and public facilities on the property and, where appropriate, the manner of coordination of these items with adjacent properties;
			5) proposed layout of lots and blocks including approximate dimensions of each and manner of numbering;
			6) name of the proposed subdivision;
			7) proposed easements or existing easements to be maintained and the purpose for which they are provided; and
			8) other information deemed necessary by the director.
	Subd. 4. Preliminary plats; review. Preliminary plats must be reviewed by the planning commission. The commission must hold a public hearing on the proposed subdivision. Notice of the public hearing must be published as provided by law. Individual notices of the public hearing must be mailed to each owner of record of property located within 350 feet of the exterior boundaries of the proposed subdivision at least five days prior to the public hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive the notice does not invalidate the proceedings. The publication and mailing notice process is performed by the city.
	Subd. 5. Reports. The director, upon submission of a preliminary plat for review and approval, must prepare a report on the proposal for the planning commission and council. Copies of the report and the submissions of the applicant must be provided to the planning commission at least five days prior to the public hearing. The report must be entered in and made a permanent part of the record of the public hearing.
	Subd. 6. Conduct of hearing. At the public hearing the planning commission will consider the report and recommendation of the director along with the comments of members of the public. The planning commission may question the applicant regarding the proposal, request additional information of the applicant, or retain expert testimony at the expense of the applicant.
	Subd. 7. Actions. The planning commission acts on the proposed subdivision in one of the following ways:
		a) recommends approval of the preliminary plat as submitted to the council;
		b) recommends approval of the preliminary plat with modifications or conditions to the council;
		c) recommends denial of the preliminary plat to the council;
		d) postpones action on the preliminary plat to the next regular meeting of the planning commission or to a later date agreed to by the applicants; or  e) with the consent of the applicant, tables action on the preliminary plat.
	Subd. 8. Procedure. Unless postponed or tabled the recommendation of the planning commission with findings of fact is forwarded to the council for its consideration. If the planning commission postpones consideration of the proposed subdivision, the applicant must be provided with a written statement of the reasons for such action and the facts on which the action is based. A preliminary plat may not be postponed more than once without the consent of the applicant, and may only be postponed to the next regular meeting of the planning commission or to a later date agreed to by the applicant. Following initial postponement or failure of the applicant and commission to agree to a satisfactory later date, the applicant may request the planning commission to forward the preliminary plat with or without recommendation to the council for consideration. A decision to forward the preliminary plat without recommendation is at the discretion of the planning commission. The commission may table the preliminary plat only with the consent of the applicant. Thereafter, the planning commission will consider the proposed subdivision at a regular meeting requested by one of its members or by the applicant.
	Subd. 9. Schedule. The preliminary plat must be forwarded to the council after consideration of the plat by the planning commission. Consideration of the preliminary plat by the council must be scheduled not more than 30 days following the date the plat was forwarded by the planning commission, unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. The council must be provided with copies of the director's report, the submissions of the applicant, the minutes of the commission's public hearing including the commission's findings of fact. These items will be made a permanent part of the record of the meeting of the council.
	Subd. 10. Council consideration. The council may hold a public hearing as part of its deliberations on the proposed subdivision. If the council determines to hold a public hearing, the procedures of subsection 505.17 must be complied with. The council may question the applicant regarding the proposal, to request additional information of the applicant, or to retain expert testimony at the expense of the applicant.
	Subd. 11. Council action. The council acts on the proposed subdivision in one of the following ways:
		a) approves the preliminary plat as submitted;
		b) approves the preliminary plat with modifications or conditions;
		c) disapproves the preliminary plat;
		d) postpones action on the preliminary plat to the next regular meeting of the council or to such later date agreed to by the applicant; or
		e) with the consent of the applicant, tables action on the preliminary plat. 
	Subd. 12. Findings. Action by the council approving, approving with modifications, or disapproving a preliminary plat must be accompanied by findings of fact. The applicant must be provided with written documentation of the council's action stating the reasons for the council's decision. If the council postpones consideration of the proposed subdivision, the applicant must be provided with a written statement of the reasons for that action. A preliminary plat may not be postponed more than once without the consent of the applicant, and must be postponed to the next regular meeting of the council, or a later date agreed to by the applicant. Following initial postponement or failure of the applicant and council to agree upon a later date, the applicant may request that the council act to approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove the preliminary plat, unless the preliminary plat is postponed or tabled. Failure of the council to act on the preliminary plat within 60 days of receipt of the preliminary plat is approval of the plat. The council, with the consent of the applicant, may table the preliminary plat and thereafter the council will consider the proposed subdivision at a regular council meeting as requested by a councilmember or by the applicant.
	Subd. 13. Time limit. Approval of a preliminary plat is valid for one year from the date of the approval, unless prior to or within that one year period an extension is granted by the council. If after the one year period or extension thereof a final plat has not been submitted for review and approval, the approval of the preliminary plat is void.
	
505.19. Final plats. 
	Subdivision 1. Submission. Upon approval or approval with modifications of the preliminary plat by the council the applicant may proceed to prepare the final plat for review and approval. Except as provided in subsection 505.13, a final plat is required for all subdivisions. Requests for review and approval of final plats are filed with the director on an approved application form, accompanied by ten diazo reproduction copies of the final plat and any other required submissions. Application must be made at least two weeks prior to the council meeting at which formal action is requested.
	Subd. 2. Fee. The fee for final plat review and approval is set by appendix IV.
	Subd. 3. Final plat; form. Final plats must be prepared at a scale not less than one inch to 100 feet (1" - 100'), and consistent with Minnesota Statutes, section 505 and rules of the appropriate county officer. Two exact transparent reproducible copies of the final plat must be submitted for official certification and execution by the city. Multiple sheets with match lines and master index may be used. The final plat must be consistent with the approved preliminary plat and must comply with all conditions or modifications imposed by the council. The final plat must also include the following:
		a) primary control points approved by the appropriate county officer, or descriptions to such control points, by which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat referenced;
		b) boundary lines; right-of-way lines for all streets and alleys; easements; and property lines with accurate dimensions, bearings, deflection angles, radii, arcs, central angles or curves; 
		c) names of rights-of-way and the width of each;
		d) location and description of monuments to be placed or maintained;
		e) certification as to accuracy of the plat by a certified surveyor;
		f) language dedicating for public use any streets or other rights-of-way, easements, parks, or other public lands or ways required by this section or imposed as a condition of approval by the council; and
		g) spaces for certification of approval to be signed by the mayor and clerk and official seal of the city.
	Subd. 4. Final plat; content. The final plat must be accompanied by the following items if required by the director:
		a) an abstract of title or certificate of title for the land contained in the proposed subdivision;
		b) an express written, irrevocable offer of dedication of all public streets, municipal uses, utilities, parks, public easements, etc. as shown on the final plat;
		c) a warranty deed and title policy in the name of the city, for each parcel proposed for dedication (the title policy will be in an amount determined necessary by the city), and if required by the director a title opinion from the city attorney;
		d) as may be required by subsection 505.23, a letter of credit, cash escrow deposit, or other security determined acceptable by the attorney in an amount equal to 100% of the engineer's estimate of the costs for improvements required to be installed by the subdivider; and
		e) as may be required by subsection 505.23, a contract establishing the subdivider's obligation to complete the required improvements.
	Subd. 5. Final plat; review; approval. The director will compare the final plat with the preliminary plat and conditions or modifications imposed by the council. The attorney will examine the abstract of title or certificate of title to ascertain that the land contained within the proposed subdivision is in the name of the applicant and that it is free and clear of all encumbrances or liens. The attorney will also review the offers of dedication and warranty deeds attached thereto. The director will review the final plat for accuracy in its preparation and compliance with the design standards provided for by subsection 505.37. The engineer will certify that the financial surety, if required, is of sufficient amount. 
	Subd. 6. Final plat; council consideration. Upon completion of the review of the final plat and submissions by the director and city attorney, the director must schedule the final plat for consideration of the council. If the review of the final plat by the director or attorney identifies deficiencies in the final plat or the required submissions, the applicant will be notified by the director. Noted deficiencies must be corrected prior to consideration of the final plat by the council. Unless deficiencies in the final plat or required submissions have been noted, the final plat must be scheduled for council consideration no later than 60 days after its submission to the director.
	Subd. 7. Final plat; council action. When considering the final plat the council must be provided with certifications by the director and city attorney that the final plat and required submissions conform to the requirements of this section. The council must then act to approve or disapprove the final plat. The council's action must be based upon findings of fact, and the applicant will be provided with written documentation of the council's action. The council may postpone or table consideration of the final plat. Unless the final plat is postponed or tabled, failure of the council to act on the plat within 60 days of the receipt of the final plat is approval.
	Subd. 8. Final plat; execution. The mayor and city clerk must affix their signatures and the official seal of the city to the final plat. The council must accept by separate resolution the lands and improvements offered for public dedication. The applicant must file approved subdivisions and all accompanying legal documents with the appropriate county officer. If the final plat is not recorded within 90 days after its approval by the council the plat is void.
	
505.21. Required improvements. 
	Subdivision 1. Responsibility. The subdivider is responsible for completing the improvements required by this section and as stipulated by the council in its approval of the final plat. The required improvements must be constructed in compliance with the design standards of subsection 505.31 and completed to the satisfaction of the director.
	Subd. 2. Required improvements. Unless waived pursuant to subdivision 3, the following improvements must be completed and paid for by the subdivider as approved in the development contract:
		a) curb and gutter;
		b) sidewalks;
		c) watermains;
		d) sanitary sewers;
		e) utility services;
		f) street paving;
		g) alley paving; 
		h) storm sewers and culverts;
		i) bridges;
		j) pedestrian paths and walks;
		k) monuments;
		1) ornamental street lights;
		m) necessary approved alterations to natural drainage ways;
		n) temporary street signs;
		o) reforestation and landscaping;
		p) miscellaneous items as agreed upon by the city council and the subdivider;
		q) miscellaneous items as contained in the design standards provided for by subsection 505.31.
	Subd. 3. Waiver. The council may waive required improvements deemed to be necessary or which the city may itself undertake. The city may construct the improvements as public improvements and assess all or part of the cost thereof against benefitted properties. A waiver must be requested by the subdivider and must be considered by the council at the time of preliminary or final plat approval.
	Subd. 4. Required plans. Prior to the commencement of construction of any required improvements, the subdivider must submit sufficiently detailed plans, profiles, and specifications for the required improvements for the review and approval of the engineer. The plans, profiles, and specifications must comply with the design standards of subsection 505.31 and other provisions of this code. The subdivider is responsible for obtaining permits required for construction of the improvements.
	
505.23. Improvements; bond. 
	Subdivision 1. Form. The subdivider must provide the city with a letter of credit, cash escrow, or other acceptable security in an amount equal to 100% of the director's estimate of costs for the required improvements. The surety must be submitted simultaneously with the request for approval of the final plat. The surety must 
		(i) name the city as obligee, 
		(ii) specify the improvements that the surety secures, and 
		(iii) stipulate that the surety secures the dedication of all the specified improvements and land, as required by the council, free and clear of encumbrances and liens. The subdivider may submit separate sureties for separate required improvements. Prior to approval of the final plat by the council the city attorney must review the submitted bond, or other security, as to its conformance with statutory provisions, form, sufficiency, and manner of execution. The required bond must be furnished in addition to a standard form development contract. 
	Subd. 2. Waiver. The council may waive the requirement that the subdivider provide a bond or other security. In such case the council must be provided with a signed, legally enforceable development contract specifying the required improvements and the subdivider's responsibility to complete them. The development contract must also specify that the city may undertake completion of the required improvements and assess the cost of same against the land contained in the subdivision upon failure of the applicant to satisfactorily complete the improvements. The contract must stipulate an agreed upon date for completion of the required improvements not later than two years from the date of approval of the development contract. The contract must be submitted at the time of final plat consideration by the council. The council may either waive the required bond submission and subsequently approve the development contract or require that a bond be submitted prior to approval of the final plat. If the development contract is accepted by the council, the approval of the final plat is conditional pending satisfactory completion of the required improvements. If the security is waived and a development contract is submitted the final plat may not be signed or recorded until the required improvements have been completed to the satisfaction of the director.
	Subd. 3. Governmental units. Governmental units to which these bond and contract requirements apply may file in lieu of the bond or contract a certified resolution, from the officers or agencies empowered to act on their behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of this subsection.
	
505.25. Improvements; completion. 
	Subdivision 1. Time. Required improvements must be completed within a time period specified by the council. At the request of the subdivider and on the recommendation of the planning commission, the council may extend the completion deadline for a period of one year provided the term of the required security is extended.
	Subd. 2. Quality. The subdivider must request inspection of completed improvements by the director. The director will inspect improvements for compliance with the approved final plat, the submitted plans, profiles, and specifications for the improvements and the quality of their construction. Upon a finding that the improvements have been satisfactorily completed, the director must certify their completion by letter to the subdivider and the council. Upon a finding that improvements have not been satisfactorily completed, the director must certify the deficiencies by letter to the subdivider and the council.
	Subd. 3. Remedies. If the required improvements have not been satisfactorily completed by the completion deadline, the council may:
		a) extend the deadline for completion of the improvements for a period of not to exceed one year;
		b) declare any submitted bonds or other securities in default and apply funds obtained from such to complete the required improvements;
		c) declare the development contract, if such has been entered into, to be violated and thereupon undertake to complete the required improvements, assessing the cost of same against the land contained in the subdivision; or 
		d) when no improvements have been commenced, rescind its previous approval of the final plat and, if the plat has been recorded, undertake necessary action to vacate the plat or the public rights-of-way contained therein.
	Subd. 4. Bond waiver. If the bond requirement has been waived and a development contract entered into, the director must certify satisfactory completion of the required improvements prior to the execution of the final plat by the mayor and clerk.
	Subd. 5. Building permits. A building permit for private construction may not be issued for land in a subdivision for which the final plat has not been recorded with the appropriate county officer. A building permit for private construction may not be issued for more than 60% of the lots or dwelling units contained in a subdivision for which all required improvements have not been completed. When the subdivision is to be accomplished in stages this requirement applies to each phase.
	Subd. 6. Release. Bonds or other security held by the city to secure required improvements will be released one year following the date of certification of satisfactory completion of the improvements by the director.
	
505.27. Land dedication, easements, and covenants. 
	Subdivision 1. Dedications. The council may require dedication of public improvements and lands designated on the plat or intended for public use. The city may require reservations and dedications for improvements that are not to be undertaken or completed immediately or as part of an approved subdivision. These requirements include, but are not limited to, lands for public utilities, streets, and park and recreation facilities. The city may approve or disapprove the locations of lands proposed for dedication pursuant to this subsection. The provisions of section 510 apply to these dedications.
	Subd. 2. Streets. The final plat must indicate the location and reservation of rights-of-way, public and private, in the proposed subdivision.
	Subd. 3. Utilities. The city requires that easements be provided for the location of public utilities and that proper legal instruments accomplishing that be provided prior to the approval of final plat. The final plat must show the location of the easements to be located in conformance to the design standards provided for by subsection 505.31. The city may require the dedication of certain lands in fee simple for public utility use where deemed necessary or desirable in the public interest. In such case the dedication will be accomplished by submission of a warranty deed and a written irrevocable offer of dedication prior to approval of the final plat. Unless authorized by the city council, private water, sanitary, or storm sewer facilities may not be constructed within a proposed subdivision to meet the requirements of this subsection.
	
505.29. Plats; restrictive covenants. Restrictive covenants may not appear on the face of a plat. The council may not impose a condition in the form of a restrictive covenant as part of its approval of a final plat. 

505.31. Plats; design standards. 
	Subdivision 1. Adoption. The director must prepare a set of comprehensive, detailed design standards and guidelines for platting. The design standards must be submitted to the council for approval by resolution.
	Subd. 2. Application of standards. The design standards apply to property, lands, structures, or projects regulated by this section and are the minimum requirements for the design and development of subdivisions or projects. The council may waive any design standards as part of its approval of final plat when it finds that the public interest will not be adversely affected thereby. The council may impose additional or more restrictive design standards as part of its approval of final plat where a finding is made that the public interest will be served thereby.
	Subd. 3. Amendment. The design standards may be amended as necessary in the same manner as adopted. Proposed subdivisions for which the final plat has not yet been approved are subject to any adopted amendment of the design standards.
	Subd. 4. Copies. Copies of the design standards will be provided to all interested parties on request at a reasonable charge.
	
505.33. Variances; appeals; procedures. 
	Subdivision 1. Authority. The council may consider and grant variances to the provisions of this section when it finds that unusual hardship on the land or practical difficulties related to the land would result from the strict application of the provisions of this section. The council may review and rule upon appeals by an affected property owner where it is alleged that there has been an error in the interpretation or application of the provisions of this section. Variances and appeals will be processed in accordance with subsection 515.55 of the zoning code.
	
505.35. Fees required. 
	Subdivision 1. Basic fee. In order to defray the administrative costs of processing requests for review and approval of sketch plats, preliminary plats, final plats, variances, appeals, or amendments a base fee as described in appendix IV is required.
	Subd. 2. Additional cost. In order to defray the additional costs of processing requests for applications submitted pursuant to the provisions of this section, additional costs for staff and consulting time and materials expended by the city in the processing of the applicant's requests may be required of the applicant.
	
505.37. Enforcement and penalties. 
	Subdivision 1. Director. The director must enforce the provisions of this section and bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations or lack of compliance with this section.
	Subd. 2. Permits. A building permit may not be issued for property found to be in violation of this section until the violation has been corrected. 
