Site and Building Plan Review (Added, Ord. No. 95-2, Repealed and Replaced, Ord. No. 2013-02)
520.01. Purpose. It is the intent of this section to serve the public interest by promoting a high standard of development within the city. Through a comprehensive review of both functional and aesthetic aspects of new or intensified development, the city seeks to accomplish the following:
	a) implement the comprehensive plan;
	b) maintain and improve the city’s tax base to a reasonable extent;
	c) mitigate to the extent feasible adverse impacts of one land use upon another;
	d) promote the orderly and safe flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic; and
	e) preserve and enhance the natural and built environment.
	
520.03. Approval required. Except as provided in subsection 520.05, without first obtaining site and building plan approval it is unlawful to do any of the following:
	a) construct a building;
	b) move a building to any lot within the city;
	c) expand or change the use of a building or parcel of land or modify a building, accessory structure or site or land feature in any manner which results in a different intensity of use, including the requirement for additional parking;
	d) grade or take other actions to prepare a site for development, except in conformance with a permit or an approved plan; or
	e) remove earth, soils, gravel or other natural material from or place the same on a site, except in conformance with a permit or an approved plan. 520.05. Exceptions. The following do not require site or building plan approval:
		a) construction or alteration of a single family or two family residential building or accessory building;
		b) enlargement of a building by no more than 10% of its gross floor area, provided that there is no other special land use action required; or
		c) changes in the leasable space of a multi-tenant building where the change does not intensify the use, require additional parking, or result in an inability to maintain required performance standards. 

520.07. Review procedure. 
	Subdivision 1. Application. Application for a site and building plan review is made to the director of community development on forms provided by the city and must be accompanied by the following:
		a) Plat or map of the property showing the proposed improvements
		b) Evidence of ownership or an interest in the property
		c) The fee required by appendix IV
		d) Complete site and building plans, signed by a registered architect, civil engineer, landscape architect or other qualified person acceptable to the director of community development and showing the following, unless determined by the director to be unnecessary:
			1) elevations of all sides of the building;
			2) type and color of exterior building materials;
			3) floor plan;
			4) dimensions of all structures, including not only buildings but also curbs, sidewalks, hard surfaced areas and anything else that is built or proposed to be built; and
			5) the location of utility connections, trash and recycling containers, heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment, and any other fixtures or equipment on the property.
		e) Landscape plans prepared by a landscape architect or other qualified person acceptable to the director of community development and showing the following unless determined by the director to be unnecessary:
			1) boundary lines of the property with accurate dimensions;
			2) locations of existing and proposed buildings, parking lots, roads and other improvements;
			3) proposed grading plan with two foot contour intervals;
			4) location, approximate size and common name of existing trees and shrubs;
			5) a planting schedule containing symbols, quantities, common and botanical names, size of plant materials, root condition and special planting instructions; 
			6) planting details illustrating proposed locations of all new plant material;
			7) locations and details of other landscape features including berms, fences and planter boxes;
			8) details of restoration of disturbed areas including areas to be sodded or seeded;
			9) location and details of irrigation systems; and
			10) details and cross sections of all required screening.
		f) Such other information as may be required by the city.
	Subd. 2. Planning commission review. Except as provided for in Subd. 4, upon receipt of a completed application a date will be set for planning commission consideration using the same procedure as for consideration of conditional use permits in the zoning ordinance.
	Subd. 3. Multiple applications. A site and building plan application that is accompanied by a request for another special land use application must be considered by the planning commission concurrently with the other application.
	Subd. 4. Administrative approvals. Site and building plans that involve enlargement of a building by more than 10% and no more than 50% of its gross floor area, and do not require any other special land use action may be approved by the director of community development. If any application is processed administratively, the director of community development must render a decision within 10 business days after receipt of a complete application and notify the applicant. There is no application fee for administrative approvals.
	Subd. 5. Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the director of community development may appeal the decision to the planning commission in the manner specified for administrative appeals in the zoning ordinance.
	Subd. 6. Term of approval. Commencement of construction. Construction of the building or initiation of the use must begin no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which site and building plan approval is granted. After the expiration of such period the approval is null and void unless the city council grants an extension of time or a building permit has been issued and substantial work performed on the project.
	Subd. 7. Extension. Upon request by the applicant, the city council may grant a one-year extension of time for a site and building plan approval following compliance with the notice and public hearing requirements of this section. The city may decline to grant an extension if there has been a change in circumstances affecting the property or if there are other reasons to justify the denial. A change in circumstance may be an approved modification to the comprehensive guide plan, substantial changes to the surrounding development pattern or other items as determined by the city. 
	Subd. 8. Three extensions. Three consecutive one-year extensions constitutes conclusive proof that the development has not made adequate progress toward completion, and no further extensions may be granted.
	Subd. 9. Conditions. The planning commission, city council or director of community development may impose conditions in granting approval to site and building plans to carry out the intent of this section or to protect adjacent properties.
	Subd. 10. Specific project. Site and building plans are valid only for the project for which approval is granted. Construction of all site elements must be in substantial compliance with the plans and specifications approved by the planning commission, city council or director of community development.

520.09. General Standards. In evaluating a site and building plan, city staff, the planning commission and city council must consider the plan’s compliance with the following:
	a) consistency with the elements and objectives of the city’s development guides, including the comprehensive plan, general building requirements, zoning ordinance and stormwater management plan;
	b) consistency with this section;
	c) preservation of the site in its natural state to the extent practicable by minimizing tree and soil removal and designing grade changes to be in keeping with the general appearance of neighboring developed or developing areas;
	d) creation of a harmonious relationship of buildings and open spaces with natural site features and with existing and future buildings having a visual relationship to the development;
	e) promotion of energy conservation through design, location, orientation and elevation of structures, the use and location of glass in structures and the use of landscape materials and site grading;
	f) provision of facilities conducive to non-motorized transportation where practicable and consistent with the use of the property and existing or proposed off-site facilities;
	g) protection of adjacent and neighboring properties through reasonable provision for surface water drainage, sound and sign buffers, preservation of views, light and air and those aspects of design not adequately covered by other regulations that may have substantial effects on neighboring land uses; and 
	h) creation of a functional and harmonious design for structures and site features, with special attention to the following:
		1) an internal sense of order for the buildings and uses on the site and provision of a desirable environment for occupants, visitors and the general community;
		2) the amount and location of open space and landscaping;
		3) materials, textures, colors and details of construction as an expression of the design concept and the compatibility of the same with the adjacent and neighboring structures and uses; and
		4) vehicular and pedestrian circulation, including walkways, interior drives and parking in terms of location and number of access points to the public streets, width of interior drives and access points, general interior circulation, separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic and arrangement and amount of parking.
		
520.11. Design standards. 
	Subdivision 1. Intent. It is not the intent of the city to restrict design freedom unduly when reviewing project architecture in connection with a site and building plan. However, it is in the best interest of the city to promote high standards of architectural design and compatibility with surrounding structures and neighborhoods.
	Subd. 2. Exterior materials. Blank walls, unadorned prestressed concrete panels, concrete block, unfinished metal and corrugated metal are not permitted as exterior materials for residential or nonresidential buildings. This restriction does not apply to industrial uses, provided that adequate screening is included in the design. This restriction applies to principal structures and to accessory buildings except those accessory buildings not visible from any exterior property line. The city council may, at its discretion, allow architecturally enhanced block or concrete panels.
	Subd. 3. Mechanical equipment. Rooftop or ground mounted mechanical equipment and exterior trash and recycling storage areas must be constructed of or enclosed with materials aesthetically compatible with the principal structure. Low profile, self-contained mechanical units that blend in with the building architecture are exempt from the screening requirement.
	Subd. 4. Utilities. Underground utilities must be provided for new and substantially renovated structures. 
	
520.13. Landscaping Standards. 
	Subdivision 1. Plan. Open areas of a lot that are not used or improved for required parking areas, drives or storage must be landscaped with a combination of overstory trees, understory trees, shrubs, flowers and ground cover materials. The plan for landscaping will include ground cover, bushes, shrubbery, trees, sculpture, foundations decorative walks or other similar site design features or materials in a quantity having a minimum value in conformance with the following table:
		Project Value (including building construction, site preparation, and site improvements)  Minimum Landscape Value
			Below $1,000,000 = 2%
			$1,000,001 - $2,000,000 = $20,000 + 1% of Project Value in excess of $1,000,000
			$2,000,001 - $3,000,000 = $30,000 + 0.75% of Project Value in excess of $2,000,000
			$3,000,001 - $4,000,000 = $37,500 + 0.25% of Project Value in excess of $3,000,000
			Over $4,000,000 = 1%
	Where healthy plant materials of acceptable species exist on a site prior to its development, the application of the standards in this subdivision may be adjusted by the city council to allow credit for such material, provided that such adjustment is consistent with the intent of this section. The city may permit the seeding of areas reserved for future expansion of the development if consistent with the intent of this section.
	Subd. 2. Trees. A reasonable attempt must be made to preserve as many existing trees as is practicable and to incorporate them into the site plan.
	Subd. 3. Overstory trees. New overstory trees must be balled and burlapped or moved from the growing site by tree spade. Deciduous trees must have a minimum caliper of 2½ inches. Coniferous trees will be a minimum of six feet in height. Ornamental trees must have a minimum caliper of 1½ inches. The city forester may waive these tree size standards in specific cases where smaller sizes may produce a better outcome as determined by the city forester.
	Subd. 4. Uncovered areas. Site areas not covered by buildings, sidewalks, parking lots, driveways, patios or similar hard surface materials must be covered with sod or an equivalent ground cover approved by the city. This requirement must not apply to site areas retained in a natural state.
	Subd. 5. Sprinkler system. In order to provide for adequate maintenance of landscaped areas, an underground sprinkler system must be installed when a new building is constructed or an existing building is being enlarged by 50% or more of its existing gross floor area. A sprinkler system is not required for areas to be preserved in a natural state or are designed and will be maintained in a manner as to not require irrigation, subject to the review and approval of the city forester.
	Subd. 6. Trees: species. Not more than 30% of the required number of trees must be composed of one species, and no tree may be planted if it is listed on the city forester’s prohibited tree list.
	Subd. 7. Internal parking lot landscaping. Parking stalls. Parking lots containing over 150 stalls must be designed to incorporate unpaved, landscaped islands in number and dimension as required by the city. Landscape islands must contain a minimum of 180 square feet. Striped no parking areas that are necessary to promote the safe and efficient flow of traffic are not to be counted in the calculation of the 150 stalls.
	Subd. 8. Landscape areas. Parking lot landscape areas must cover at least 8% of the surface in which they are contained. Such areas, including landscape islands, must be reasonably distributed throughout the parking lot area so as to break up expanses of paved areas. Such areas must be provided with deciduous shade trees, ornamental or evergreen trees, plus ground cover, mulch or shrubbery subject to review and approval by the city forester. Landscape trees must be provided at the rate of one tree for each 15 surface parking spaces provided, or major fraction thereof. Landscaping must be contained in planting beds bordered by a raised concrete curb or equivalent approved by the planning commission.
	Subd. 9. Maintenance of landscaping. The owner, tenant and their respective agents are jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping in a condition presenting a healthy, neat and orderly appearance and free from refuse and debris. Plants and ground cover that are required by an approved site or landscape plan and which have died must be replaced within three months of notification by the city. However, the time for compliance may be extended up to nine additional months by the director of community development in order to allow for seasonal or weather conditions.
	Subd. 10. Retaining walls. Retaining walls must be constructed in accordance with plans prepared by a registered engineer or landscape architect if required by the building code.
	
520.15. Escrow deposit required. 
	Subdivision 1. Improvements. When screening, landscaping, paved areas or other similar improvements to property are required, then a cash escrow deposit is required to guarantee completion of the work and survival of the landscaping and trees for at least one year after installation. The guarantee of work, escrow release and related matters shall be governed by a site improvement agreement between the city and the property owner in accordance with the city’s standard form for such agreement prepared by the director of community development.
	Subd. 2. Completion of work. Upon completion of the work, the escrow deposit shall be released. In cases where various elements of the work are completed in distinct stages, a request for partial release of the escrow may be approved by the director of community development. In the event construction of the project is not completed within the time prescribed by building permits or other approvals, the city may, at its option, complete the work using the escrow. 
	Subd. 3. Extension. The city may allow an extended period of time for completion of all landscaping if the delay is due to conditions which are reasonably beyond the control of the developer. Extensions not exceeding nine months may be granted due to seasonal or weather conditions. If an extension is granted, the city may require additional security as appropriate.
	
520.17. Screening and buffering. 
	Subdivision 1. Certain uses. The following uses must be screened or buffered in accordance with the requirements of this subdivision:
		a) Principal buildings and structures, and any building or structure accessory thereto, located in any commercial, industrial or planned development zoning district and containing non-residential uses, must be buffered from adjacent property located in any residential or planned development district and used for any residential purpose.
		b) Principal buildings and structures and any building or structure accessory thereto having densities exceeding five units per acre must be buffered from adjacent property having a lower residential density than the subject property.
		c) Off-street parking facilities containing five or more spaces must be buffered from adjacent property used for any residential purpose.
		d) Loading docks must be screened from lot lines and public roads unless specifically determined by the city council to be unnecessary.
		e) Trash and recycling storage facilities must be screened from lot lines and public roads unless specifically determined by the city council to be unnecessary.
		f) Outside storage in commercial and industrial districts that is allowed by other provisions of this code must be screened from all public views.
	Subd. 2. Materials. Required screening or buffering may be achieved with fences, walls, earth berms, hedges or other landscape materials. Walls and fences must be architecturally harmonious with the principal building. Earth berms may not exceed a slope of 3:1. The screen must be designed to employ materials that provide an effective visual barrier.
	Subd. 3. Location. Required screening or buffering must be located on the lot occupied by the use, building, facility or structure to be screened. No screening or buffering may be located on a public right of way or within eight feet of the traveled portion of a street or highway, nor within the sight triangle described in the zoning ordinance.
	Subd. 4. Height. Required screening or buffering must be of a height needed to accomplish the goals of this section. Height of plantings required under this section must be measured at the time of installation unless this requirement is specifically waived by the city council. 
