Park dedication
510.01. Dedication required. A reasonable portion of the buildable land to be divided must be dedicated to the public or preserved for public use as parks, playgrounds, trails, or open space. “Buildable land” means the gross acreage of all property in the proposed plat or subdivision excluding wetlands designated by federal or state agencies, wetlands classified by the Wetland Conservation Act, as amended, state or county rights of way, and steep slopes as defined by the zoning ordinance. This requirement applies to plats, subdivisions, or lot divisions that 
	(i) create at least one additional lot, or 
	(ii) combine lots for the purpose of development involving changed or mixed land uses or the intensification of uses, or 
	(iii) consist of a planned development as defined and regulated by the zoning code. The dedication requirements are not satisfied if the city reasonably determines that the land proposed for dedication is unsuitable for public recreational use. The dedication required by this section is in addition to dedication required for streets, roads, utilities, storm water ponding areas, or similar utilities and improvements. Previously subdivided property from which a park dedication has been received, being resubdivided with the same number of lots, is exempt from park dedication requirements. If, as a result of subdividing the property, the number of lots is increased, then the park dedication fee applies only to the net increase of lots. (Amended, Ord. 2008-06, Sec. 1)

510.03. Amount required. The amount of land required for dedication is based upon the buildable land area and equals the land the city reasonably finds it will need to acquire for park or other recreational purposes as a result of approval of the land division. Generally, 10% of the buildable land area to be subdivided must be dedicated for residential subdivisions and 5% for commercial and industrial subdivisions. (Amended, Ord. 2008-06, Sec. 1)

510.05. Cash payment in lieu of dedication. The city may require a cash payment in lieu of land dedication. In determining whether to require payment or dedication, the council will consider such factors as whether park land is needed in the proposed location, whether the proposed dedication is suitable for the intended use, and whether a cash payment would be more beneficial to development of the entire park system. (Amended, Ord. 2008-06, Sec. 1)

510.07. Amount of cash payment. The cash payment in lieu of dedication is determined by the fair market value of the buildable land as determined by the city Assessor at the time of final plat approval, including the value added by existing utilities, streets and other public improvements serving the property but excluding the value added by all other existing improvements to the land. The amount of the cash payment shall be 2% of the fair market value as determined by the assessor. The cash payment is for each lot in residential subdivisions and for each acre in commercial and industrial subdivisions as set out in the fee schedule. (Amended, Ord. 2006-08, Sec. 1; Ord. 2008-06, Sec. 1)

510.09. Park and open space fund. Cash payments in lieu of dedication are payable no later than at the time of final subdivision approval. The payment must be placed in a special fund established by the city to be used solely for the purposes of acquisition and development or improvement of parks, playgrounds, trails, or open space. (Amended, Ord. 2008-06, Sec. 1) 

510.11. Partial dedication. The City may accept a dedication of land in an amount less than that specified in subsection 510.03 and require a cash payment equivalent to the balance of the dedication requirement. The partial cash payment is determined by subtracting the percentage of land actually dedicated from the percentage of land required to be dedicated under subsection 510.03, and applying the resulting percentage to the fair market value of the buildable land. (Amended, Ord. 2008-06, Sec. 1)

510.13. Credit for private land. A credit of up to 25% of the dedication requirements may be awarded for park and open space that is to be privately owned and maintained by the future residents of the subdivision. A credit will not be awarded unless the following conditions are met:
	a) private open space may not be occupied by nonrecreational buildings and must be available for the use of all the residents of the proposed subdivision;
	b) required building setbacks will not be included in computation of private open spaces;
	c) use of the private open space must be restricted for park, playground, trail, or open space purposes by recorded covenants that 
		(i) run with the land in favor of future owners of property within the subdivision and 
		(ii) cannot be defeated or eliminated without the consent of the city council;
	d) the private open space will be of a size, shape, location, topography, and useability for park or recreational purposes, or contain unique features which are important to be preserved; and
	e) the private open space must reduce the demand for public recreational facilities or public open space occasioned by development of the subdivision.
	
510.15. In establishing the portion to be dedicated or preserved, or the cash fee in lieu thereof, the city shall give due consideration to the open space, recreational, or common areas and facilities open to the public that the applicant proposes to reserve in the subdivision. (Added, Ord. 2008-06, Sec. 1)
